                                                                      TAB 8
                                                      Report to Convocation
                                                               June 25, 2025


Access to Innovation Program Report




Purpose of Report: Information

                         Prepared by the Policy, Equity and External Relations Division
                                                        Roy Bornmann rbornman@lso.ca
                                                              Art Wilson awilson@lso.ca
                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS




Access to Innovation Program Report ............................................................................................. TAB 8.1




                                                                    2
                                                       Authored by

                             Art Wilson, Manager, Access to Innovation
                                                      awilson@lso.ca




                                                         June 9, 2025




 Access to Innovation
Update Report on Access to Innovation program
                          Table of contents


         4     Purpose


         4     Context



         6     Overview of the Access to Innovation program
                1. A2I Team
                2. Application process
                3. Communications



         9     Operations update
                1. Outreach
                2. Consumer advertising



         10    Current status
                1. Participants approved since the 2024 report
                 2. Expanded offerings from existing participants
                 3. Participants ceasing operations since last report
                 4. Participant reporting
                 5. Volume of services to date
                  . French language services

         14    Observations from the first 3 years
                1. Goals of the program
                2. Growth in the market
                3. Increase in offerings from licensees
                4. Quality of service
                5. Two access to justice factors: geographic distribution and cost
                  . Service trends
                 7. Barriers to collaboration


June 9, 2025
                                                                                     2
                          Table of contents


        21     Looking forward



       22      Appendix A - Data analyst's report



       26      Appendix B - Authorizing participants to operate on an ongoing basis




June 9, 2025
                                                                                      3
   Purpose
   The purpose of this report is to provide an update on the Access to Innovation program
   (“A2I”), the Law Society’s regulatory sandbox for innovative technological legal services.



   Context
   In August 2018, the Law Society of Ontario established the Technology Task Force in
   response to the rapid evolution in technologies, such as artificial intelligence, that are
   transforming the ways in which legal services are delivered. The Task Force was charged
   with exploring three areas: (1) the role of technologies in the delivery of legal services; (2)
   the Law Society’s role as a regulator in a changing, tech-enabled environment; and (3)
   how the Law Society can encourage innovation in the professions through the use of
   technology to better deliver legal services.


   The Task Force submitted an Update Report to Convocation in November 2019 that
   explored the technological landscape for legal services, implications for access to justice
   and the regulation of legal services, and potential regulatory directions. The Task Force’s
   work also included: an examination of legal technologies in Canada and abroad;
   consideration of how other legal regulators are addressing technology; an exploration of
   trends and issues in the development and regulation of legal tech; and consideration of
   the impact of legal tech on the public, the professions and the legal services industry.


   Following this extensive study, the Task Force prepared a report recommending the
   creation of a regulatory sandbox for innovative legal technologies (now called the Access
   to Innovation program or A2I). The report discussed the impetus for the sandbox and its
   key features, benefits, risks, costs, and resource requirements. It also recommended the
   adoption of By-Law 16 and annual update reports to Convocation.


   In April 2021, Convocation approved the Task Force’s recommendation. Following work
   to establish the infrastructure for the program, the A2I program was formally launched in
   November 2021. Details of that foundational work can be found in the June 28, 2022
   Update Report to Convocation.



Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                     4
   Context continued
   In May 2024, the A2I program provided a further update to Convocation. That report
   provided an update on the A2I infrastructure that had been developed to date including
   the A2I team, the councils that help provide guidance to the program; operational
   framework updates and evaluation criteria that are used. This report is supplementary to
   that update.


   Note: In February 2023, Art Wilson was hired as the new Manager of the A2I program. Art
   was implementing a new management approach to the program, and it was decided not
   to submit a formal report until the results of the of Art’s changes had been seen. As an
   alternative, an informal update was provided through the Treasurer’s remarks to
   Convocation at the June 2023 meeting.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                              5
   Overview of the A2I program
   A2I is a five-year regulatory sandbox pilot program that allows legal innovators to operate
   technologies that provide legal services directly to the public while complying with risk-
   based public protection requirements established by the Law Society. The “regulatory
   sandbox” model is a policy tool that regulators employ to engage with innovative service
   providers that do not fit well within the existing regulatory framework. First popularized in
   the financial services sector, regulatory sandboxes are “safe zones” in which potentially
   beneficial products, services, business models and delivery mechanisms can be test-run,
   subject to tailored operating conditions and regulatory supervision. The law societies of
   BC, Alberta, Manitoba and Quebec have also implemented or are implementing regulatory
   sandboxes. There are also some American jurisdictions with sandboxes, including Utah,
   which is often considered a pioneer of this approach.


   A2I is open to a broad range of legal innovators involving any legal function and at all
   stages of development or operation. Applications are accepted from any type of service
   provider – lawyer or paralegal, non-licensee, law firm, business or not-for-profit
   organization. Applicants’ tools or programs must feature the innovative delivery of legal
   services via technology or via a hybrid of technology and licensee services.


   Legal innovators may apply to join A2I at any point during the year, rather than at certain
   fixed intake periods. Applicants must demonstrate that they provide a sufficient quality of
   service while mitigating risks of harm to consumers.


   Approval to participate in A2I means that a provider can operate in Ontario for an agreed
   period of time, subject to operating and reporting requirements that protect the public. As
   set out above, A2I participants operate pursuant to By-Law 16.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                   6
   Overview continued
   01.     A2I team

           A2I is administered by a small staff team, composed of:
                Art Wilson, Manager, Access to Innovation,
                Emma Lian, Program Administrator, and
                James Teufel, data analyst, who provides advice and analysis on a fee-for-
                service basis.


           The A2I team is supported by the LSO’s Policy and Communications departments
           and an external advisory council made up of experts from the profession and
           legal academia.



   02.     Application process

           Applying to A2I is a 2-stage process. Stage 1 is an evaluation of the applicant’s
           product/service concept, reviewed by the A2I staff with written input from the
           advisory council. The purpose of stage 1 is to determine if the applicant’s
           concept fits within the scope of the A2I mandate and to provide early feedback.
           Stage 2 is an evaluation of the actual product, with extra emphasis on user data
           privacy and cyber security. Stage 2 is reviewed by A2I staff who then meet with
           the advisory council for their feedback and approval recommendation.


           Approved participants are required to enter into a participation agreement with
           the LSO. This agreement ensures that the participant will provide the public
           protections that have been determined as critical to participation in the program.
           The protections are listed in section 6 of this report. The participant must also
           work with A2I staff and LSO Communications for the timing and media release
           content of launch.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                7
   Overview continued
   03.     Communications

           Communications and outreach are key to the growth and operation of A2I. Art
           Wilson leads the outreach to raise awareness of A2I within the legal professions and
           among potential applicants. The LSO Communications team continues to play a key
           role in A2I outreach. They work with A2I staff and the approved applicants in
           advance of the announcement of the approvals. This includes development of social
           media posts, updates to the A2I website, media releases and other communications
           products as may be warranted.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                  8
   Operations update
   01.     Outreach

           In 2024, Art Wilson continued to present at conferences and institutions including:
               2024 CBA Atlantic Roundtable
               2024 IAALS (Institute for the Advancement of the American Legal System)
               convening: Unlocking Legal Regulation: Regulating AI in the Delivery of
               Consumer-Facing Legal Services.


           During this time, he also attended other legal (tech) conferences including:
               2024 Legal Innovation Forum
               2024 Legal Tech Summit
               2024 Solo and Small Firm conference
               2025 Access to Justice and AI: New Frontiers for Research, Policy, and
               Practice, Beus Center for Law and Society, Arizona State University


           As a result of all these efforts, the number of applications and expressions of
           interest in the A2I program continues to increase.



   02.     Consumer advertising

           In February 2025, the LSO began advertising the program to consumers through
           the purchase of Google ads. Since launching this advertising initiative, the
           average number of monthly hits to the participants page on the A2I website has
           increased from 213 to 1,896 and the click-throughs to participants’ sites has
           increased from 46 to 159.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                 9
   Current status
    In the past 12 months, 7 new participants have been approved for the A2I program, 6 of
    which have been publicly announced. This brings the total number of approved
    participants to 17, 14 of which have been publicly announced. Currently there are an
    additional 16 applications under review or in the early stages of the application process.


    In 2025, the number of new applications is again trending upwards and now almost
    exclusively consists of applicants approaching the LSO rather than the LSO approaching
    or inviting potential applicants to apply to the A2I program, as was the case in 2023 and
    2024. This is likely indicative of both greater awareness of the A2I program as well as a
    greater proliferation of innovative technological legal services.



    01.      Participants approved since the 2024 report

   The new participants that have been approved since the 2024 report are:

        01    ilovelaw                                  02    Plaid


        ilovelaw offers bilingual, legal products       Plaid Fertility Law is a web application that
        and resources to make legal services more       enables users to quickly generate, share
        accessible and affordable for all Ontarians.    and collaborate on agreements for third-
        The platform provides a range of                party reproduction, including surrogacy,
        customizable legal documents in estate          ova, sperm and embryo donation. Users
        planning, family law and employment law,        can proceed at their own pace, with
        accompanied by various tools to help the        guidance from experienced legal counsel.
        user complete the legal document,               All agreements are electronically signed
        including user guides, checklists and           and fertility clinics are automatically
        glossaries. Some services are available in      notified, ensuring a seamless transition to
        English and French.                             the next steps in their family-building
                                                        journey — without delay.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                        10
  01. Participants approved since the 2024 report continued

     03    Philer                                      04    Deeded


     Philer streamlines real estate closings by        Deeded is a platform that simplifies
     automating processes from onboarding to           closing real estate transactions. With a
     legal completion. Offering transparent,           focus on convenience, transparency and
     fixed legal fees with no hidden costs,            security, Deeded users can upload and
     Philer assists homebuyers in confidently          track their required documents, work with
     navigating transactions. Leveraging               a Deeded lawyer for all necessary legal
     licensed real estate lawyers and AI, Philer       services, track their transaction’s progress
     helps ensure an efficient and stress-free         and digitally sign their documents.
     experience for buyers, sellers, and real
     estate professionals.




     05    SkyLaunch                                   06    Jointly


     SkyLaunch is a simple self-guided online          Jointly is an online platform that seeks to
                                                       educate Ontario residents about family law
     tool for Ontario incorporations. Offering an
     expert-curated fixed-fee incorporation            and empowers them to create relationship

     package and a user-friendly online portal,        agreements (prenups, marriage

     SkyLaunch helps make sure each                    agreements and cohabitation

     corporation is kept up-to-date, so                agreements). It uses technology to guide
                                                       users through a series of questions about
     entrepreneurs can focus on what’s most
     important: to launch and grow their               their circumstances and creates legally

     business. SkyLaunch was created by the            compliant and personalized documents

     legal professionals at SkyLaw, an affiliated      based on the information provided.

     law firm, to service budding solopreneurs
     and anyone who needs a corporation.




    There is one additional approved participant that will provide services in the family law
    area. Their participation is anticipated to be publicly announced later in 2025.


Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                      11
   Current status continued
   02.     Expanded offerings from existing participants
           Some of the existing participants are considering offering new, or expanded,
           products. A2I will be evaluating these offerings prior to approval to ensure they
           meet the A2I standards for quality and user protections.



   03.     Participants ceasing operations since last report
           Since the 2024 report to Convocation, one participant, Imminspect, has ceased
           operations. This was a business decision of the owner-operators of the
           application and was not related to any issues with the A2I program. Imminspect
           worked with the A2I program to ensure an organized wrap-up of operations so as
           not to harm any then-users of the application.



   04.     Participant reporting
            Participants in the A2I program report to the Law Society on a quarterly basis,
            providing details on the services processed through their service or program as
            well as any complaints received.


            The A2I data analyst, James Teufel, prepares a cumulative report for each
            participant that is updated with each quarterly report submission.


            The latest aggregate cumulative report is attached to this document as Appendix
            A. The value of this aggregate report will continue to grow with the size of the
            reported dataset.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                               12
   Current status continued
   05.     Volume of services to date
           The A2I program has brought more previously unregulated legal services under
           regulation than any other legal regulatory sandbox in North America with 119,848
           services that have been provided by participants to date.


           It is worthwhile to compare the performance of the A2I program with that of
           Utah’s regulatory sandbox, often considered a benchmark for sandbox
           performance. The number of services reported for the first 26 months of LSO A2I
           was two and half times higher than Utah’s sandbox operations (approximately
           120,000 compared to 47,000). However, Utah’s sandbox was broader than
           Ontario’s sandbox, with Utah offering innovative services via alternative business
           structures, human alternative legal service providers, and software alternative
           legal service providers. After limiting Utah’s services to software alternative legal
           service providers and comparing those services to Ontario’s innovative
           technological legal services, Ontario’s legal sandbox services were more than 30
           times that of Utah (approximately 120,000 compared to 3,900). Ontario’s
           population is more than four times that of Utah. After further adjusting for
           population size differences of Ontario and Utah, the number of innovative
           technological legal services of Ontario at 26 months was 7 times higher than
           Utah.


   06.     French language services
            Since the 2024 report another participant that offers French language services
            has been added to the program, and with this, 3 out of 13, or ~23%, of
            participants now offer services in French as well as English. Increasing French
            service offerings remains a focus for the A2I program.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                   13
    Observations from the first 3 years
   01.     Goals for the program

           The goals for the A2I program, set out in the 2021 Technology Task Force Report
           were:
                1. Facilitating access to justice.
                2. Protecting the public.
                3. Spurring innovation.
                4. Supporting regulatory re-evaluation.
                5. Educating legal professionals and the public.

           For a detailed explanation of these goals see Technology Task Force Report to
           Convocation, June 28, 2022 at pp 3 and 4.


           The observations below demonstrate how the program is meeting these goals.

           To be approved as an A2I participant, an applicant must confirm that it has
           certain public protections in place. While not exhaustive, common criteria used to
           evaluate whether applicants have the requisite public protections in place were
           set out in Section 6 of the 2024 report and remain:
           1.     Product quality
           2.     Cyber security
           3.     User data privacy
           4.     Acceptable terms and conditions of application use
           5.     Complaints management
           6.     Insurance
           7.     Business continuity planning
           8.     Acceptable marketing and advertising
           9.     User identification
           10. Acceptable payment processes
           11. Compliance with referral fee rules.

           Detailed explanations of these criteria are in the 2024 report.


Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                14
   01.     Goals for the program continued
           While some applicants already have requisite standards in place when they apply
           to the A2I program, often the evaluation process results in changes to applicants’
           insurance coverage, terms and conditions, internal complaints processes, privacy
           policies and, in certain instances, applicants’ entire business models in a manner
           that adds protections consistent with licensees’ professional requirements. The
           negotiations that lead to these changes are necessarily confidential; however
           they underpin two key observations to date:


             1. A regulatory framework for these providers helps to build public protections
               into the provider: The A2I program uses the LSO Rules and By-Laws as a
               template for relevant public protections. It then determines the appropriate
               proxies to apply these protections to an applicant. Finally, the program staff
               work with the applicant to ensure that, when needed, it modifies its behaviour
               in a manner that provides the required protection. All the evidence from the
               first three years of the A2I program is that ITLS providers are willing to work
               with the LSO to ensure that they have protections, consistent with the LSO
               Rules and By-Laws, in place if they are given appropriate guidance on how to
               achieve that.


             2. Assessing applicants requires an individualized approach: Because of the
               diversity in approaches to providing legal services through technology as
               well as the stage of development at which applicants apply to the A2I
               program, each of the applicants has had a unique application process.
               Applicants have commenced their A2I applications at all stages of
               development, from a concept to an operational product. Different applicants
               providing similar legal services have had different cyber security, insurance
               or other policies that need to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. These
               have required bespoke reviews, analysis and feedback to ensure that the
               goals of the A2I program are met.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                 15
    Observations from the first 3 years
    continued
   02.     Growth in the market

            Over the past three years, the number of entities operational in Ontario identified
            as likely direct-to-consumer legal service providers has grown from approximately
            22 identified entities to 51 identified entities, including: current participants in A2I,
            current applicants to A2I, and entities that could be suitable
            applicants/participants in A2I who have not, to date, applied. With 17 approved
            participants and an additional 16 being currently evaluated, the A2I program is
            capturing and/or considering 65% of the known direct to consumer legal tech
            market.


            It remains unclear what impact generative AI technology will have on the direct-to-
            consumer legal tech market. So far generative AI technology has not yet resulted
            in a significant proliferation of direct-to-consumer legal products. It is anticipated
            that it is only a matter of time before generative AI powered direct to consumer
            legal technologies are more commonly available.



   03.      Increase in offerings from licensees

            2024 saw the approval of four new participants led by licensees, whereas
            previously approved participants involved licensees but were not commonly led
            by them.


            At least one new participant has indicated that, absent the A2I program, they
            would not have developed their innovative idea and brought it to market,
            demonstrating how A2I is spurring innovation in the market.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                        16
    Observations from the first 3 years
    continued
   04.     Quality of service

           The quality of services being delivered by participants in the program remains
           very high. Of the 119,848 services provided by participants to date, only 23
           qualifying legal service complaints were recorded, of which only 10 were
           classified as harm related. A harm related complaint is one that is both focused
           on the legal service being provided (“qualifying”) and falls into 1 of 4 categories
           of identified harms. These complaints were resolved either without harm/loss to
           the complainant or with the service provider compensating the complainant for
           the financial loss, which was minor. For a more detailed discussion complaint
           classification see Appendix A.


           For more detail on how legal service complaints are classified see Appendix A,
           under Harm Assessment and Complaints Summary at p. 24 infra.



   05.      Two access to justice factors: geographic distribution and
            cost

            While ~ 50% of the population of Ontario is located in the Greater Toronto Area
            and Ottawa (Ontario population, and Ottawa and GTA populations from Statistics
            Canada), reporting from participants shows that ~30% of participants’ services
            were delivered to users in these regions. While non-conclusive this may be an
            indicator that users in more remote areas with less access to traditional legal
            services are experiencing added benefit from A2I service providers.


            Further, the average cost of services delivered by A2I participants was ~$93,
            which would indicate an added benefit for individuals who cannot afford
            traditional legal services.



Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                 17
    Observations from the first 3 years
    continued
   06.     Service trends

           Non-adversarial services dominate

           The services provided by A2I participants as well as current applicants consist
           primarily of drafting (structured) legal documents and navigating non-adversarial
           legal services, such as immigration applications. This trend is anticipated to
           continue.


           Documents such as wills, powers of attorney and prenuptial agreements tend to
           be fairly structured documents assembled from a collection of precedent clauses
           and these are well suited to a technology drive service solution.

           Further, these are situations involving a single party, such as a will, or two
           consenting parties, such as a prenuptial agreement or a real estate transaction,
           as opposed to adversarial legal situations involving parties who are already in
           disagreement and so would be unlikely to agree to use a legal tech tool to solve
           their dispute, at least at the outset.


           To date, only one application has been received dealing with adversarial legal
           situations. This application is currently being evaluated.



           Simple service offerings

           To date, providers have tended to focus on using technology to deliver less
           complex services. We believe there is likely potential to deliver more complicated
           services through more technologies than we have seen to date.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                18
    06.      Service trends continued

             Simple service offerings continued

             Before A2I the reason for this may have been because service providers were
             only legally allowed to provide legal information, and not legal services. However,
             the creation of the A2I program has removed this barrier. The reason that service
             providers are still not expanding into more sophisticated service offerings is not
             clear; however possible explanations include:


                 There simply may not be a market to offer a DIY service for even moderately
                 complex legal problems, because people may want to deal with real lawyers
                 and paralegals when confronted with a complex legal issue. While
                 technologies can assist with the filling of forms, individuals are often seeking
                 advice on how to approach a problem.


                 As legal problems become more complex they also become more unique
                 requiring bespoke solutions. Accordingly, the cost of developing the
                 technology becomes higher while the potential user pool shrinks, creating a
                 situation where there is not a business case to warrant the product
                 development.


             This topic will be discussed with A2I participants in 2025 in order to further
             understand the rationale.



    07.      Barriers to collaboration

             Some applicants have proposed models where some legal services are provided
             by a technology while other legal services are provided by a licensee. Typically
             the proposal is: a legal service will be offered via a website; however once it
             becomes apparent that the user requires a more complex or bespoke service
             than the website’s capabilities, the matter is to be sent to a licensee (A2I refers to
             these as hybrid applications). Hybrid applications raise a number of challenges



Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                      19
   07.     Barriers to collaboration continued

            including: appearance as an alternative business structure; revenue sharing;
            referral fees and conflict checks. Because By-Law 16 deems that participants are
            not practicing law, a licensee can never personally be a participant in the A2I
            program.


            Additional hybrid applications are expected in 2025. The lessons learned from
            these applications and from evidence reported during the applicants’
            participation in the program will provide information that will be useful to the LSO
            as it determines the appropriate approach to collaboration between licensees
            and technologies that provide legal services.




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                   20
   Looking forward
    The A2I team will continue to promote the A2I program through direct outreach to
    potential applicants as well as participation in relevant conferences/courses and other
    appropriate media outreach efforts.


    The A2I team will continue to report to Convocation on A2I. As the program progresses,
    deeper analysis and further observations from the program will be reported.


    In 2025 the A2I team will also be considering how A2I participants who meet
    expectations during their operating period may receive ongoing authorization from the
    Law Society to continue providing legal services in Ontario on an ongoing basis as was
    set out in the Technology Task Force Report. This will involve consulting with participants
    and the professions as well as seeking input from the Futures Committee and the A2I
    stakeholder roundtable. This is discussed in more detail in Appendix B.


    The A2I program was approved by Convocation as a 5-year pilot program. The program
    commenced its operations in November 2021 and is set to conclude in November 2026.
    As the pilot program approaches the conclusion of its current mandate, Convocation will
    need to consider a number of issues regarding the continuation of the A2I program:


      1. Should the A2I program be made permanent?
      2. Should the pilot project be extended and, if so, by what period?
      3. Should the A2I program be wound up at the end of its current mandate?
      4. If Option 1 or 2 above are selected, should the mandate of the A2I program be
        changed?
      5. If Option 3 is selected, should the LSO consider alternative means to regulate ITLS
        providers or should it take the position that ITLS providers are outside the LSO’s
        mandate for regulation?




Access to Innovation | Update Report
                                                                                                  21
   Appendix A: Data analyst's report
   Law Society of Ontario Access to Innovation Sandbox Report

     Revised May 16, 2025



   Number of services and legal issues

   Entities in the Law Society of Ontario Access to Innovation sandbox (LSO A2I sandbox) began
   reporting legal services during March 2023. Between November 2022 and April 2025, 119,848
   legal services have been sought. Figure 1 summarizes the cumulative number of legal services
   by reporting month.




   Figure 1: Cumulative reported services by reporting month




Access to Innovation | Appendix A
                                                                                                  22
   Types of services sought
   Almost all legal services sought were for document or form completion (n= 117,232 97.82%).
   Filing documents/forms or client preparation, or referrals accounted for less than 3% of legal
   services sought (n=2,608 2.18.%; n=8, ~0.01%).


   The vast majority of services to date continue to fall under the area of wills, trusts and estates,
   with real estate and corporate law services present but well behind. Q1 2025 has seen the
   addition of new participants in the family law and fertility law areas, and the A2I team is currently
   evaluating applicants who, if approved, will further broaden the types of legal services available
   through the program.




   Services per unique person or bundle
   >99.9% of services were offered to consumers located in Ontario, and >99% of services were
   offered in English (with the remainder offered in French). 29.48% (35,332 services) of the
   services were offered to consumers across three cities (Table 1).




   Location of consumer and language of service provision
   >99.9% of services were offered to consumers located in Ontario, and >99% of services were
   offered in English (with the remainder offered in French). 29.48% (35,332 services) of the
   services were offered to consumers across three cities (Table 1).




   Table 1: Number and percentage of services by city


     City                                      Number of Services       Percentage of Services

     Toronto                                 22,279                     18.59%

     Ottawa                                  7,893                      6.59%

     Mississauga                             5,160                      4.31%

     TOTAL across 3 cities                   35,332                     29.48%


    70.52% of Ontario services were offered outside of these three cities or were currently undefined
    (with approximately 9,478 [~7%-8%] consumer locations currently undefined).


Access to Innovation | Appendix A
                                                                                                           23
   Amount paid for legal services
   The total amount paid for services from November 2022 through April 2025 was $11,128,742.
   The total amount paid to date relative to the total count of services sought was $92.86.




   Harm assessment and complaints summary

   Since March 2023, consumer-related legal service complaints have been reviewed by the LSO A2I
   sandbox. A sandbox qualifying complaint must be related to a legal aspect of the service itself
   (i.e., legal service focused) and at least potentially impact a consumer (i.e., consumer focused).
   If a complaint is not focused on the legal service or is not focused on a potential consumer
   impact, it is not a sandbox qualifying complaint. If a complaint qualifies as a sandbox complaint,
   those qualifying complaints are then reviewed for sandbox categorical harms. Four categories of
   harms are regulated by the sandbox. The four categories of legal services harms are as follows:


     1. Failure to exercise legal rights or pursue legal recourse as a result of ignorance, error, or poor-
        quality legal services
     2. Purchase of unnecessary or inappropriate legal services
     3. Exposure or sale of confidential client data to third parties
     4. Inability to seek redress or recompense from a legal service provider that has failed to
        provide the service expected or agreed


   Sandbox qualifying complaints are categorized as harm-related or not harm-related. Harm-
   related complaints are also explored for the provider’s response regarding the specific consumer
   harm and broader responses if the specific harm indicates a broader systemic problem. At any
   point of the complaint review or response process, an entity can be engaged for clarification and
   elaboration regarding the complaint itself or the personal or systemic response to a complaint.


   As of April 30, 2025, sixty-six sandbox non-qualifying complaints (mostly complaining about
   technological interface but not the legal service itself, a consumer change of mind, incorrect
   interpretation by consumer of terms/conditions/service, frustrations with ancillary administrative
   actions [e.g., paying taxes] or wanting services beyond the scope of service afforded by the
   provider) have been reported to LSO A2I.




Access to Innovation | Appendix A
                                                                                                              24
   Harm assessment and complaints summary continued
   There have also been 23 sandbox qualifying complaints. Of those twenty-three sandbox
   qualifying complaints, 10 complaints were classified as harm-related (1 complaint per 11,985
   legal services), and these harm-related complaints were linked to a failure to exercise legal rights
   or pursue legal recourse as a result of ignorance, error, or poor-quality legal services or purchase
   of unnecessary or inappropriate legal services (Table 2).



   Table 2: Harm-related complaints overall, November 2022-March 2024


     Harm Category                                             Number of            Proportion of
                                                               Complaints           Complaints

     Failure to exercise legal rights or pursue legal          9                    .000075
     recourse as a result of ignorance, error, or poor-                             (1 complaint per
     quality legal services                                                         13,316 services)

     Purchase of unnecessary or inappropriate legal            1                    .000008
     services                                                                       (1 complaint per
                                                                                    119,848 services)

     Exposure or sale of confidential client data to third     0                    .000
     parties

     Inability to seek redress or recompense from a legal      0                    .000
     service provider that has failed to provide the
     service expected or agreed




Access to Innovation | Appendix A
                                                                                                          25
   Appendix B: Authorizing participants to operate
   on an ongoing basis
   A2I participants currently enter into two year agreements with the A2I program. When those
   agreements expire, they automatically become one year rolling agreements. In the Technology
   Taskforce Report Convocation determined that there would be some manner in which participants
   would be authorized to operate on an ongoing basis after completing their participation in A2I. To
   date, the form and process of this has not been determined.

   The A2I program will begin consulting with stakeholders on the form and process of ongoing
   operation. Some of the items that will need to be considered will include:



  1. What should “authorization to operate on an ongoing basis” mean? Should it be an indefinite
     contract, a permit, a license or something else?

   The A2I participants are regulated through contract known as a participation agreement, which:
        describes the scope of services to be provided,
        requires the participant adhere to standards for quality of the product, customer service,
        data privacy, cyber-security, disaster recovery, etc.
        establishes reporting standards (detailed below)
        provides the LSO with powers to monitor the performance of the participant (detailed
        below), and
        establishes the means and processes by which failures or breaches of obligations are to be
        remedied, or in the most serious of circumstances how the participant’s participation in the
        program may be terminated.


   Providing ongoing authorization on an ongoing basis through a contract could be done with no
   amendments to the Law Society Act or the Law Society By-Laws. Further, the contract method
   has proved effective at building an individualized regulatory model tailored to each participant.




  2. What criteria should be used to determine whether an ongoing authorization is granted?
     When should it not be granted?

   In the Technology Task Force Report it was inferred that ongoing authorization should only be
   granted after some period of successful participation in the A2I program. Limiting the ongoing
   authorization to A2I participants who have successfully completed a number of years in the A2I
   program; have performed a certain number of legal services and have not had any significant
   issues will likely be a starting point for this analysis.


Access to Innovation | Appendix B
                                                                                                        26
   3. What will be the ongoing reporting requirements? Will there be annual re-qualification
      requirements?

   Currently A2I participants provide data on a quarterly basis with regard to:
        number of services provided,
        nature of services,
        geographic region where services were provided as well as other demographic
        information (if available),
        prices of services provided, and
        information on any complaints received.

   Lawyers and paralegals are required to file an annual report. It would be consistent to have an
   annual reporting requirement analogous to licensee obligations.




     4. Does there need to be an LSO discipline process established for entities that have ongoing
        authorization and what should that entail?

    Currently the LSO can monitor participants in the A2I program by the following methods:
        Conduct an audit once per year, with potential follow ups to ensure any identified issues are
        addressed.
        Require a participant to provide such information and/or access to systems in order to confirm
        continued compliance with the terms of the participation agreement.
        Receive complaints regarding a participant directly from users or others.
        Conduct quality assurance testing on a participant's product/service offering without notice to
        the participant.

    Further, participants are required to:
        Notify the LSO within five business days of any material change to their business or services
        that could impact their eligibility to continue to operate under the program.
        Report any complaints received on a quarterly basis, and report complaints alleging fraud,
        criminal misconduct, wilful misconduct, gross negligence, or malicious or dishonest acts or
        omissions by the participant within five business days of receiving the complaint.
        Report to the LSO within 72 hours any data breach involving personal information that is
        required to be reported to a federal or provincial body.
        Report to the LSO within 72 hours any data breach which it is required to report to its insurer.


    The LSO has broad powers under the participation agreements with participants to act on
    information gathered or received to help ensure protection of the public from harm. While the LSO




Access to Innovation | Appendix B
                                                                                                           27
   has committed to working constructively with participants to remedy situations without
   interruption of their operations where possible, it does have the power to require the participant to
   temporarily cease operations or to expel a participant from the A2I program should circumstances
   warrant.


   Participants that are authorized to provide ongoing operations should be subject to appropriate
   monitoring and discipline, drawing on lessons learned from the A2I program as well standards and
   methods that are applied to licensees.


   Ongoing authorization will require setting standards and having effective consequences when
   those standards are not maintained.




Access to Innovation | Appendix B
                                                                                                           28
