                     SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH

 HON. MATTHEW B. DURRANT                                      HON. PAIGE PETERSEN
 CHIEF JUSTICE                                                JUSTICE

 HON. JOHN A. PEARCE                                          HON. DIANA HAGEN
 ASSOCIATE CHIEF JUSTICE                                      JUSTICE

                                                              HON. JILL M. POHLMAN
                                                              JUSTICE


                                       September 5, 2024


Dear Legal Services Innovation Committee,

        Thank you for assisting the Court in evaluating how the Sandbox is functioning
and what adjustments need to be made to better achieve our goals. As you know, the
Sandbox is a pilot project designed to test whether changing the way we regulate the
practice of law can increase access to legal services without increasing consumer harm.
The results of this experiment will inform the Court’s future decisions governing the
practice of law in Utah. Because the Sandbox is a first-of-its-kind experiment, it will
inevitably require fine-tuning to ensure that we are effectively testing the service models
within the Sandbox and generating the kind of data that can meaningfully inform future
policy decisions. We appreciate the Committee’s commitment to working with the Court
to refine the project as we learn more information.

      Based on your feedback, we have decided to continue with the existing Sandbox
model. We are also adopting the following recommendations made by the Committee:

     •   Restart the audit process immediately. We agree that audits of mid- to high-
         innovation entities are the most valuable source of information on consumer
         harm. We have also reconsidered our prior decision to employ volunteer
         attorneys as auditors. The Court is hoping to reduce operating costs, but we take
         the Committee’s point that the entities themselves are responsible for audit fees
         that cover the cost of paid auditors. We agree that the audit process developed by
         the Committee has been successful and should not be modified.
    •   Retire the badge and in its place require entities to prominently display
        language to solicit complaints or feedback. We appreciate the Committee’s
        recommendation to address the Court’s growing concern that the badge has been
        misused or misconstrued as an endorsement by the Court. This recommendation
        also furthers the Court’s interest in soliciting not just complaints, but feedback on
        benefits to consumers. We would like to implement this recommendation as soon
        as possible.

    •   Reject applications from for-profit entities solely or primarily offering
        immigration-related services. We appreciate the Committee’s thoughtful
        memorandum detailing the reasons for this recommendation. We agree that these
        entities offer little potential for consumer-friendly innovations and pose an
        outsized risk of consumer harm. We adopt the Committee’s recommendation to
        no longer authorize prospective for-profit immigration service providers.

    •   Continue processing applications for new Sandbox entities. We agree with the
        Committee that once the for-profit immigration service entities are removed from
        the application pool, we should promptly move forward with the remaining
        applications that are currently pending and continue to accept and process new
        applications. Admitting new entities to the Sandbox will allow us to test more
        service models and will better inform future policy decisions.

The Court defers consideration of the Committee’s remaining recommendations until
two additional policy changes are implemented.

       Last year, the Court made several changes to the Sandbox to promote our objective
of increasing access to legal services without increasing the risk of consumer harm. To
mitigate consumer harm, we introduced a series of front-end controls: additional vetting
of participants, pre-launch audits for high-innovation entities, and the requirement that
financing and controlling persons adhere to the same core fiduciary duties that lawyers
owe to their clients. To promote increased access to legal services, we imposed an
innovation requirement for new applicants to the Sandbox. We explained that the change
would “allow us to use our limited resources to regulate only those entities with potential
to shrink the access-to-justice gap by increasing the availability of legal services.”
However, previously authorized entities with a satisfactory compliance record were
allowed to continue to operate within the Sandbox regardless of whether they met the
innovation requirement.



                                                                                           2
        Since those policy decisions were made eighteen months ago, we have faced new
challenges with entities currently in the Sandbox. A number of low-innovation entities
have consumed a disproportionate amount of Innovation Office resources that could be
better spent processing applications and regulating entities with more potential to benefit
consumers. Some ABS entities appear to have misused their Sandbox authorization to
bolster their credibility or gain access to restricted advertising markets by suggesting that
their services have been endorsed by this Court. And many ABS entities appear to have
misconstrued their authorizations as permitting them to offer legal services provided by
non-Utah-licensed attorneys. While attempting to correct this misconception, we
discovered that a sizeable group has no meaningful presence in the Utah legal market.
Finally, we learned from our data team that the number and variety of entities in the
Sandbox poses significant challenges for collecting and analyzing data in a meaningful
way.

       At the end of this month, the Sandbox will have been in operation for four years.
Based on the information gathered so far, the Court has decided that further narrowing
the scope of the Sandbox will better promote its objectives and align with our jurisdiction
over the practice of law in Utah. To that end, we are adopting two policy changes:

   1. The innovation requirement will be modified to include a Utah nexus.

          a. To meet the innovation requirement, an entity must demonstrate that a
             Sandbox authorization will allow it to reach Utah consumers currently
             underserved by the legal market. We will refer to this as “the Utah
             innovation requirement.”

          b. The Utah innovation requirement is intended to act as a fairly high bar for
             participation in the Sandbox. Only applications that present an innovative
             service model with the potential to expand access to legal services in Utah
             should be submitted for Court approval.

          c. The impact on Utah consumers must be substantial relative to the entity’s
             overall reach. National and international companies that expect to serve
             only an incidental number of Utah clients will not qualify. A small entity
             that principally serves Utah consumers will satisfy the Utah nexus even if
             it reaches a modest number of clients.

          d. To implement this policy, the Committee should recommend changes to the
             Innovation Office manual and, if necessary, Standing Order 15.

                                                                                           3
2. All previously authorized entities that do not meet the Utah innovation
   requirement will exit the Sandbox.

     a. The Committee will determine whether each existing Sandbox entity is
        currently providing authorized legal services using a model that meets the
        Utah innovation requirement.

            i. This assessment should be limited to the service model on which the
               authorization was based. Entities wishing to propose a new service
               model meeting the Utah innovation requirement must re-apply to
               the Sandbox.

           ii. Low-innovation entities will not meet the Utah innovation
               requirement unless the non-lawyer ownership structure is designed
               to facilitate an innovative service model with a substantial impact on
               the Utah market, such as providing a one-stop-shop or intermediary
               platform for Utah consumers.

           iii. Mid- to high-level innovation entities will generally meet the Utah
                innovation requirement, so long as the entity’s service model is
                designed to reach a substantial number of Utah consumers.

           iv. The Innovation Office will gather the necessary information about
               each entity to present to the Committee, including whether the entity
               is actively employing the authorized service model. This will require
               individualized follow up with each entity.

     b. The Committee will provide the Court with a list of current Sandbox
        entities that do not meet the Utah innovation requirement. For each entity,
        the Committee should recommend one of three options:

            i. Terminate Sandbox Authorization. We suspect that there are some
               low-innovation entities that will be unaffected by their removal
               because they have no need of a Sandbox authorization. Entities that
               do not provide legal services in Utah or who do not employ or
               partner with a Utah lawyer are outside the scope of our jurisdiction,
               meaning their Sandbox authorization has no effect. Entities that offer
               only legal information or scrivener services are likely not engaged in
               the practice of law and do not need special authorization to operate
               in Utah, especially if they operate using the same model in other
                                                                                   4
                     states. There may also be non-lawyer owned entities in the Sandbox
                     that employ or contract with Utah lawyers in a way that does not
                     constitute fee sharing and/or does not require a IOLTA waiver.
                     These entities need no accommodation to continue operating when
                     their authorization ends.

                  ii. Terminate Sandbox Authorization with Accommodation. On the
                      other hand, without the Sandbox authorization, the lawyers of some
                      ABS-only entities would be subject to discipline for violating the
                      Court’s rules of professional conduct. We are willing to work with
                      those lawyers to ensure that they are not subject to professional
                      discipline if they continue to operate within the business
                      arrangements entered into pursuant to a Sandbox authorization.
                      That exemption will be non-transferable to other Utah attorneys and
                      limited to the existing ownership structure and/or business model.
                      If appropriate, the Committee should recommend that the Court
                      grant such an accommodation in conjunction with terminating the
                      entity’s Sandbox authorization.

                 iii. Change Authorization to Provisional Status. If the authorized
                      service model meets the Utah innovation requirement but the entity
                      has not yet launched that service model, the Committee may
                      recommend that the entity’s authorization be changed to a
                      provisional status.

        We anticipate that these two policy changes will vastly reduce the number of
entities in the Sandbox. Currently, three-fourths of the Sandbox consists of low-
innovation, ABS-only entities. Eliminating these entities from the Sandbox will allow us
to focus our limited resources on regulating mid- and high-innovation entities with the
greatest potential to shrink the access-to-justice gap.

       After we narrow the scope of the Sandbox, we will be prepared to tackle the
Committee’s other recommendations. A rubric for classifying and handling complaints
will be more helpful if it is tailored to the more limited variety of entities that will remain
in the Sandbox. Similarly, any changes to the way we collect and analyze data will be
informed by the type of entities being regulated, recognizing that the most useful data
concerning mid- to high-level entities will come from pre- and post-launch audits.



                                                                                             5
      We are excited by the prospect of focusing the energy of the Committee, the
Innovation Office, and the Court on those models that have the greatest potential to
meaningfully address the access to justice crisis in Utah. We believe these changes will
avoid wasting time and resources on efforts that do not move the needle. We look
forward to working with the Committee to further refine and implement these policies.


                         _________________________________




                                                                                       6
