        Utah Supreme Court Standing Order No. 15
                      (Amended)
                       (Amended September 21, 2022)
This Standing Order establishes a pilot legal regulatory sandbox, an Office of
Legal Services Innovation, and the Legal Services Innovation Committee of the
Utah Supreme Court to assist with overseeing and regulating the practice of
law by nontraditional legal service providers or by traditional providers
offering nontraditional legal services. Unless otherwise provided, this Order
shall expire on the seventh anniversary of its effective date.
The Standing Order is effective as of August 14, 2020 (Amended June
         3, 2021) (Second Amendment September 21, 2022).
                                 Background
The access-to-justice crisis across the globe, the United States, and Utah
has reached the breaking point.1 As to how affordable and accessible
civil justice is to people, the 2021 World Justice Project Rules of Law
Index ranks the United States 126th of 139 countries.2 As to that same
factor, out of the thirty-seven high-income countries, the United States
ranks dead last.3
To put it into perspective, a recent study by the Legal Services
Corporation found that 86 percent ―of the civil legal problems reported
by low-income Americans in [2016–17] received inadequate or no legal
help.‖4 Similarly, a recently published study out of California
―[m]odeled on the Legal Services'' study, concluded that 60 percent of
that state’s low-income citizens and 55 percent of its citizens ―regardless
of income experience at least one civil legal problem in their household
each year.‖ The study also found that 85 percent of these legal problems
―received no or inadequate legal help.‖5 Closer to home, an in-depth


1 Access to justice means the ability of citizens to meaningfully access solutions

to their justice problems, which includes access to legal information, advice,
and resources, as well as access to the courts. See Rebecca L. Sandefur, Access to
What?, DAEDALUS, Winter 2019, 49.
2 WORLD JUSTICE PROJECT, WORLD JUSTICE PROJECT RULE OF LAW INDEX 2021
https://worldjusticeproject.org/our-work/research-and-data/wjp-rule-law-
index-2021
3 Id.

4 LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION, THE JUSTICE GAP: MEASURING THE UNMET CIVIL

LEGAL NEEDS OF LOW-INCOME AMERICANS (2017).
5 STATE BAR OF CALIFORNIA TASK FORCE ON ACCESS THROUGH INNOVATION OF

LEGAL SERVICES, FINAL REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION 11–12 (2020) (emphasis


                                                                                     1 OF 17
April 2020 analysis of the legal needs of Utahns living at 200 percent or
less of the federal poverty guidelines found that their unmet legal needs
stood at 82 percent.6
For years, the Utah Supreme Court has made combating the access- to-
justice crisis confronting Utahns of all socioeconomic levels a top
priority. To date, the Supreme Court, along with the Judicial Council
and the Utah Bar Association, have worked ceaselessly to improve
access to justice through many initiatives: the Utah Courts Self-Help
Center, the Licensed Paralegal Practitioner Program, form reform, and
the Online Dispute Resolution Program, to name but a few. What has
become clear during this time is that real change in Utahns’ access to
legal services requires recognition that we will never volunteer
ourselves across the access-to-justice divide and that what is needed is
market-based, far-reaching reform focused on opening the legal market
to new providers, business models, and service options.
In its boldest step toward bridging the access-to-justice gap, the
Supreme Court has undertaken an effort to reevaluate and amend
several of the regulations it has historically relied upon in governing the
practice of law. This Standing Order and accompanying rule changes
implement that effort. The Supreme Court believes that the regulatory
reform set out in this Standing Order will shrink the access-to-justice
gap by fostering innovation and harnessing market forces, all while
protecting consumers of legal services from harm.7
1. General Provisions
In accordance with its plenary and exclusive authority and
responsibility under article VIII, section 4 of the Utah Constitution to
govern the practice of law, the Utah Supreme Court establishes the
Office of Legal Services Innovation (―Innovation Office‖) and the Legal
Services Innovation Committee (―LSI Committee‖) of the Utah Supreme
Court. The Innovation Office will operate under the direct auspices of
the Supreme Court with LSI Committee oversight. Together, the

added).
6 UTAH FOUNDATION, THE JUSTICE GAP: ADDRESSING THE UNMET LEGAL NEEDS OF

LOWER-INCOME UTAHNS 23 (2020).
7 The Supreme Court’s decision to pursue changes regarding its governance of

the practice of law is in keeping with (1) the Resolution of the Conference of
Chief Justices and (2) the Resolution of the American Bar Association’s House
of Delegates ―to consider regulatory innovations that have the potential to
improve the accessibility, affordability, and quality of civil legal services, while
also ensuring necessary and appropriate protections that best serve clients and
the public.‖


                                                                                       2 OF 17
Innovation Office and the LSI Committee will assist the Supreme Court
in overseeing and regulating nontraditional legal services providers and
the delivery of nontraditional legal services.8
The Innovation Office will be responsible for the operation of a pilot
legal regulatory sandbox (Sandbox)9 through which individuals and
entities may be approved to offer nontraditional legal services to the
public. Entities subject to regulation through the Innovation Office
include entities using nontraditional business structures, including
investment or ownership by nonlawyers, entities using nontraditional
modalities for legal practice including through nonlawyer alternative
legal providers and technology, and entities proposing other options not
currently permitted by the Rules of Professional Conduct and other
applicable rules [hereinafter ―nontraditional legal service entities‖].
The Supreme Court establishes the Office of Legal Services Innovation,
the Legal Services Innovation Committee, and the Sandbox for a pilot
phase of seven years from the original effective date of this Standing
Order (August 14, 2020). At the end of that period, the Supreme Court
will carefully evaluate the program as a whole, including the Sandbox,
to determine if it should continue. Indeed, unless expressly authorized
by the Supreme Court, the program will expire at the conclusion of the
seven-year study period.
2. Innovation Office
Subject to the limitations set forth in the Standing Order, the ultimate
authority and control of the Utah Supreme Court, and the oversight of
the LSI Committee, the Innovation Office will have the authority to
regulate nontraditional legal service entities (see Sections 1, 4.3.2, and 5).
The Innovation Office is responsible for carrying out the day-to-day
activities necessary for the regulatory oversight of nontraditional legal
service entities authorized to offer legal services in Utah. This
responsibility includes the administration of the legal regulatory
Sandbox and regulation of entities approved for the general legal




8 In Utah, the practice of law is defined by Utah Supreme Court Rule of
Professional Practice 14-802. This Standing Order incorporates that definition.
For an understanding of ―nontraditional legal services providers‖ and
―nontraditional legal services,‖ please refer to Section 3.3 (Regulatory Scope).
9 A regulatory sandbox is a policy tool through which a government or
regulatory body permits limited relaxation of applicable rules to facilitate the
development and testing of innovative business models, products, or services
by sandbox participants.


                                                                                   3 OF 17
market (―exited the Sandbox‖).10 The Supreme Court grants the
Innovation Office the authority to develop and propose processes and
procedures around licensing, monitoring, and enforcement to carry out
its mission in light of the Regulatory Objective and Regulatory
Principles outlined in Section 4.
In carrying out the responsibilities designated to it by the Utah Supreme
Court, the Innovation Office, at all times, will remain subject to the
Supreme Court’s direction and control, and the oversight of the LSI
Committee. The Innovation Office must submit proposed processes,
procedures, and fee schedules to the Supreme Court for approval as
they are developed and before they take effect.
The Innovation Office will have no authority to regulate any
individuals, entities, or activities that are beyond the Supreme Court’s
constitutional scope and mandate to govern the practice of law.11
      2.1 Responsibilities
The following comprise the Innovation Office’s responsibilities:
     (1) effective administration and operation of the regulation of
         nontraditional legal service entities including but not limited to:
            (a) intake, evaluation, and authorization recommendations
                to the LSI Committee for review and vote;
            (b) ongoing monitoring and evaluation of entities authorized
                in the Sandbox and licensed in the general legal market,
                including assessment and evaluation of risk and informal
                engagement with entities to inform and mitigate
                compliance or harm concerns;
            (c) initial determination of whether formal regulatory
                intervention is necessary to protect consumers (e.g.,
                suspension or termination);

10Innovation Office resources may limit the number of entities authorized
within the regulatory Sandbox.
11 By way of illustration, the Supreme Court has authorized real estate agents to

advise their customers with respect to, and to complete, state- approved forms
directly related to the sale of real estate. See Rule of the Utah Supreme Court
Rules of Professional Practice 14-802(c)(12)(A). Outside of this grant, and the
ability to modify it, the Supreme Court has no authority with respect to
regulating real estate agents. That authority rests with the legislative and
executive branches. By way of further illustration, some attorneys hold both
J.D.s and M.D.s. The Supreme Court only governs the ability of these
individuals to practice law. It has never interfered with their ability to practice
medicine.


                                                                                      4 OF 17
           (d) assessment and initial determination of whether an
               entity has met the criteria to exit the Sandbox and enter
               the general legal market; and
           (e) collection and accounting for any regulatory fees that are
               imposed on entities;
   (2) communication with and coordination of the LSI Committee’s
       review of applications and regulatory data;
   (3) reporting to the Supreme Court, with members of the LSI
       Committee as needed, on the activities of regulated entities,
       recommendations for Sandbox authorization, entity exits, and
       other formal regulatory intervention as approved by the LSI
       Committee;
   (4) assist the LSI Committee in policy, data framework, tracking,
       and evaluation process development as needed;
   (5) timely communication and coordination with applicants, the
       public, external researchers, and other stakeholders;
   (6) manage the Office including making recommendations to the
       LSI Committee on budget and staffing needs; and
   (7) develop and maintain participant forms, educational materials,
       Office manual, entity and Office records, and communications
       materials.
3. Legal Services Innovation Committee
     3.1 Composition
The Utah Supreme Court shall appoint the members of the LSI
Committee. The LSI Committee shall have no less than five and no more
than seven members. The members shall serve up to two consecutive
staggered three-year terms. The Court shall appoint a Chair of the LSI
Committee from among the members. The Supreme Court can remove,
in its sole discretion, an LSI Committee member, with or without cause
and without notice. LSI Committee members serve as officers of the
Court and not as representatives of any client, employer, or other
organization or interest group. At the first meeting of the LSI
Committee in any calendar year, each Committee member must briefly
disclose the general nature of the member’s employment.
The Executive Director of the Utah State Bar shall serve as an ex officio
non-voting member to the LSI Committee. The Supreme Court will also
appoint a Justice as a non-voting liaison to the LSI Committee.

     3.2 Meeting Schedule


                                                                            5 OF 17
The LSI Committee will meet as often as necessary to effectively execute
its purpose but at least monthly. The LSI Committee open meeting
minutes will be made public after approval by the Committee.

     3.3 Vacancies
If there is an LSI Committee vacancy, the Supreme Court will appoint a
new Committee member to serve the remainder of the unexpired term.

     3.4 Absences
In the event an LSI Committee member fails to attend two consecutive
meetings, the Chair may notify the Supreme Court of the absences and
may request that the Court appoint a new member.

     3.5 Administrative and Financial Oversight
The LSI Committee will be supported by both the Executive Director of
the Innovation Office and the Appellate Court Administrator.
The Appellate Court Administrator, as an employee of the Court, will
serve as the Budget Manager of the Office. As such, the Appellate Court
Administrator will be responsible for managing Office Budget
disbursements, reviewing, modifying, and approving budget requests,
and communicating with the LSI Committee and Innovation Office to
ensure proper administrative and financial oversight.
The LSI Committee will select two members to serve as Operational
Monitors of the Innovation Office to liaise with the Budget Manager on
administrative and financial decisions.

     3.6 Purpose
The LSI Committee’s purpose is to provide oversight and assistance to
the Office of Legal Services Innovation in the regulation of non-
traditional legal services authorized by the Utah Supreme Court.

     3.7 Responsibilities
The following comprise the LSI Committee’s responsibilities:
   (1) develop and oversee implementation of policies necessary to
       administer the regulation of non-traditional legal service entities
       according to the dictates of this Standing Order and the Court’s
       ongoing discretion;
   (2) develop and recommend to the Court metrics for evaluating the
       conduct and impact of this regulatory reform pilot, including the
       effectiveness of the regulatory sandbox as a policy mechanism
       and on the services provided by non-traditional legal service
       entities authorized by the Court;


                                                                             6 OF 17
   (3) develop and recommend to the Court any rules necessary for the
       effective and efficient administration of the regulation of non-
       traditional legal service entities;
   (4) develop and recommend to the Court a fee schedule for the
       regulatory services being provided by the Innovation Office;
   (5) oversee the Office’s regulation of non-traditional legal service
       entities authorized or licensed by the Court, including but not
       limited to:
           (a) review and recommend applicants to the Supreme Court
               for authorization to provide legal services in the Sandbox
               according to its discretion;
           (b) review authorized entity legal service data for material
               evidence of consumer harm and make recommendations
               to the Court for necessary regulatory action to be taken
               (e.g., suspension or termination of authorization); and
           (c) review entity provided data and recommend entities to
               the Supreme Court for exit from the Sandbox and
               licensure as a legal service entity as supported by the
               evidence and at the Court’s discretion.
   (6) approve the budget for the Innovation Office and annually
       submit the budget to the Supreme Court;
   (7) monitor the Innovation Office’s workload and recommend to the
       Court any staffing needs and/or adjustments;
   (8) perform an annual review of the Innovation Office and consider
       any strategic planning necessary to achieve the Regulatory
       Objective;
   (9) annually, in conjunction with the Executive Director, report to
       the Court regarding the operations and policies of the
       Innovation Office;
   (10)   review and consider any public input.
     3.8 Conflicts of Interest
The Utah Supreme Court acknowledges that instances may arise in
which LSI Committee members may face conflicts of interest between
their business or personal affairs and their member duties. A conflict of
interest arises when members—or a member of their immediate
family—have a financial interest in a Sandbox applicant or participant
or in an entity that has successfully exited the Sandbox. For example, a
member’s firm may apply to offer services as part of the Sandbox.


                                                                            7 OF 17
Recognizing that transparency and public confidence are paramount
concerns, the Supreme Court requires that in cases of conflict, the
implicated member(s) disclose the conflict to the LSI Committee in
writing and recuse from any involvement regarding that particular
Sandbox applicant or participant. The Innovation Office will maintain a
record of all conflicts and recusals and make all records related to
conflicts and recusals publicly available.
4. Regulatory Approach
There are three facets to the regulation of nontraditional legal services
entities the Innovation Office will apply:
Entity regulation: the Office will regulate organizations rather than
individuals.
Objectives-based regulation: Objectives-based regulation specifically
and clearly articulates regulatory objectives to guide development and
implementation of regulation.
Risk-based regulation: Risk-based regulation uses data-driven
assessments of market activities to target regulatory resources to those
entities and activities presenting the highest risk to the regulatory
objectives and consumer well-being. Using risk-based regulation
enables the Innovation Office to better prioritize its resources and
manage risks in the Utah legal services market.
     4.1 Regulatory Objective
The overarching goal of this reform is to improve access to justice. With
this goal firmly in mind, the Innovation Office will be guided by a single
regulatory objective:
To ensure consumers have access to a well-developed, high-quality,
innovative, affordable, and competitive market for legal services.
The Utah Supreme Court’s view is that adherence to this objective will
improve access to justice by improving the ability of Utahns to
meaningfully access solutions to their justice problems, including access
to legal information, advice, and other resources, as well as access to the
courts.
     4.2 Regulatory Principles
The Innovation Office will be guided by the following regulatory
principles:
   (1) Regulation should be based on the evaluation of risk to the




                                                                              8 OF 17
        consumer.12
     (2) Risk to the consumer should be evaluated relative to the current
         legal services options available.13
     (3) Regulation should establish           probabilistic    thresholds    for
         acceptable levels of harm.14
     (4) Regulation should be empirically driven.15
     (5) Regulation should be guided by a market-based approach.16
       4.3 Regulatory Scope
As noted, under the auspices of the Utah Supreme Court and the LSI
Committee, the Innovation Office will be responsible for developing,
overseeing, and regulating nontraditional legal providers and services
authorized in the Sandbox. Should the Supreme Court permit Sandbox
participants to exit the Sandbox, the Innovation Office will be
responsible for developing, overseeing, and regulating entities
authorized to exit.
            4.3.1 Outside the Regulatory Scope
Individuals and entities that carry out the following activities are
outside the Innovation Office’s regulatory scope, remain under the
Supreme Court’s traditional rules governing lawyer conduct and


12 The phrase ―based on the evaluation of risk‖ means that regulatory
intervention should be proportional and responsive to the actual risk of harm
posed to the consumer, as supported by the evidence.
13 The phrase ―relative to the current legal service options available‖ means that

risk should not be evaluated as against an ideal of perfect legal representation
by a lawyer. Risk should rather be measured as against the reality of current
market options for consumers. In many cases, that means no access to legal
representation or legal resources at all.
14 The phrase ―probabilistic thresholds for acceptable levels of harm‖ (the
chance a consumer is harmed) means the probability of a risk occurring and the
magnitude of the harm should the risk occur. Based on this assessment, the
Innovation Office will determine thresholds of acceptable risks for identified
harms. Regulatory resources should be focused on areas in which, on balance,
there is a high probability of harm or a significant impact from that harm on the
consumer or the market.
15The phrase ―empirically driven‖ means that the regulatory approach and
actions must be supported, whenever possible, by data from the legal services
market.
16 The phrase ―market-based approach‖ means that regulatory tactics should

seek to align regulatory incentives with increased revenue or decreased costs
for market participants in order to encourage desired behavior or outcomes.


                                                                                     9 OF 17
discipline, and need not notify the Innovation Office:
Partnerships, corporations, and companies entirely owned and
controlled by lawyers in good standing; individual lawyers with an
active Utah Bar license; and legal services nonprofits:
   (1) offering traditional legal services as permitted under the Rules of
       Professional Conduct; or
   (2) using new advertising or solicitation approaches                 as
       contemplated by the Rules of Professional Conduct.
           4.3.2 Within the Innovation Office’s Regulatory Scope
Individuals and entities that carry out the following activities are within
the scope of the Innovation Office’s regulatory authority and are subject
to this Standing Order’s requirements:
   (1) any business entity that includes nonlawyers who have an
       economic interest, including profit sharing, or decision-making
       authority in the business and engages in the practice of law as
       defined in Utah Supreme Court Rule 14-802;
   (2) an entity, for profit or nonprofit, using nonlawyer alternative
       legal providers or technology platforms, tools, or applications to
       provide legal services constituting the practice of law as defined
       in Utah Supreme Court Rule 14-802; or
   (3) an entity, for profit or nonprofit, seeking a discrete waiver of the
       Rules of Professional Conduct to facilitate innovative legal
       service delivery.
           4.3.3 Disbarred Lawyers            and    Individuals     with
           Criminal History
Disbarred Lawyers. The Utah Supreme Court has determined that
lawyers who have been disbarred present a significant risk of harm to
consumers if in the position of ownership or control of an entity or
individual providing legal services. Therefore, disbarred lawyers are not
permitted to gain or hold an ownership interest of greater than 10
percent in any entity authorized to practice law under Rule 5.4B or this
Standing Order.
In addition, any entity applying for authorization to offer services in the
Sandbox must disclose the following:
   (1) whether the entity has any material corporate relationship
       and/or business partnership with a disbarred lawyer and
   (2) whether a disbarred lawyer works with or within the entity, in
       either an employment or contractual relationship, and is in a


                                                                              10 OF 17
       managerial role in the direct provision of legal services to
       consumers.
Criminal History. The Supreme Court has determined that individuals
with certain serious criminal histories may present an increased risk of
harm to consumers if in the position of ownership or control of a legal
service entity.
Any entity applying for authorization to offer services in the Sandbox
must disclose the following:
   (1) whether any individual holding an ownership interest of greater
       than 10 percent in the entity has a felony criminal history;
   (2) whether the entity has any material corporate relationship or
       business partnership with an individual with a felony criminal
       history; and
   (3) whether an individual with a felony criminal history works with
       or within the entity, in either an employment or contractual
       relationship, and is in a managerial role in the direct provision of
       legal services to consumers.
The Innovation Office, on receipt of any disclosures required above, will
incorporate the information into the risk assessment of the entity as
appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, the Innovation Office may
also conduct independent criminal history checks.
Falsifying any information, including lawyer status and individual
criminal history, is a basis for dismissal from the Sandbox and in the
event the entity or individual has exited the Sandbox, a basis for loss of
licensure. Other criminal and civil sanctions may also apply.
5. Regulatory Structure
     5.1 Sandbox
The Sandbox is a policy tool by which the Utah Supreme Court, through
the Innovation Office, permits innovative legal services to be offered to
the public in a controlled environment. The Innovation Office will
develop, oversee, and regulate the Sandbox according to the guidance
outlined in this Standing Order. Individuals and entities in the Sandbox
will be subject to such data reporting requirements and ongoing
supervision as the Innovation Office determines, so long as the
requirements fall within its regulatory authority.
           5.1.1 Sandbox Application Process
All individuals and entities that fall within the Regulatory Scope
(Section 4.3.2) must apply to the Innovation Office for authorization to



                                                                              11 OF 17
enter the Sandbox.
The objective of the application process is for the Innovation Office to
determine that the legal service proposed by the applicant furthers the
Regulatory Objective and does not present unacceptable levels of risk of
consumer harm. The Innovation Office will develop an efficient and
responsive process for intake, review, assessment, and response to
applications.
The Utah Supreme Court contemplates that the application process will
be iterative and will include communications between the Innovation
Office and the various applicants, as necessary.
The Innovation Office will determine whether an applicant’s proposed
legal service furthers the Regulatory Objective and does not present an
unacceptable risk of consumer harm. The Innovation Office will
recommend to the LSI Committee whether an applicant should be
authorized and the associated requirements for the applicant (e.g.,
reporting, disclosure, audits, risk mitigation). Once approved by the
LSI Committee, the Innovation Office will recommend the applicant to
the Supreme Court. In developing these requirements, the Innovation
Office will consider the Regulatory Objective and Regulatory Principles.
If the Innovation Office does not find that an applicant’s proposed legal
service furthers the Regulatory Objective or finds that it presents an
unacceptable risk of consumer harm, the Innovation Office will deny the
proposed authorization, and will include a brief written explanation
supporting the finding. The Innovation Office will develop a process for
appeal of a denial of a proposed authorization to the Supreme Court.
           5.1.2 Authorization
As with the licensing of lawyers and Licensed Paralegal Practitioners,
the Utah Supreme Court will ultimately be responsible for approving or
denying authorization of nontraditional legal service entities.
An approved application means permission to offer the proposed legal
service in the Sandbox as outlined in the authorization order and under
the Innovation Office’s authority. Authorized participants and services
are deemed authorized to practice law or offer legal services in Utah,
albeit on a limited and temporary basis, under Utah Supreme Court
Rule of Professional Practice 14-802. Authorization is always contingent
upon timely compliance with the requirements imposed by the
Innovation Office and upon a showing that the entity is not causing
material consumer harm.
Denial of authorization by the Supreme Court has the effect of returning
the application to the Innovation Office. The Supreme Court may


                                                                            12 OF 17
include a brief written explanation of the reasons for its decision not to
authorize the applicant. This information may guide the applicant in
how to potentially resolve concerns and revise its application for
reconsideration. However, authorization to enter the Sandbox or exit to
the general legal market always remains subject to the Supreme Court’s
sole discretion and may not be granted.
Additionally, authorization within the Sandbox does not impact any of
the other requirements that may be imposed upon an entity (e.g.,
business license, tax commission registration, etc.).
           5.1.3 Exiting the Sandbox
If the Supreme Court decides to permit Sandbox participants to exit the
Sandbox, entities that are able to demonstrate that their legal services
are safe—i.e., that maintain a satisfactory record of compliance and do
not cause material consumer harm during their Sandbox term—may, at
the Supreme Court’s sole discretion, be approved to exit the Sandbox
and may be granted the appropriate license to practice law or offer legal
services by the Utah Supreme Court pursuant to Utah Supreme Court
Rule of Professional Practice 14-802.
Exited entities will remain under the regulatory authority of the
Supreme Court through the Innovation Office and are subject to such
monitoring and reporting requirements as the terms of the license
indicate and are subject to the enforcement authority of the Innovation
Office. As above, license to practice law or offer legal services upon exit
does not impact any of the other requirements that may be imposed
upon an entity (e.g., business license, tax commission registration, etc.).
The Innovation Office will develop the process (subject to Supreme
Court approval) by which providers and services may exit the Sandbox,
should the Court decide to allow such exits. It is anticipated that this
process will generally follow that outlined for application approval,
including an assessment of the provider or service, a finding on the
consumer safety of the provider or service, and a recommendation to
the Supreme Court as to the scope of the license and associated
requirements (e.g., reporting). Should the court decide to permit entities
to exit the Sandbox, any such exit will always be at the sole discretion of
the Supreme Court.
If the Innovation Office does not find that a participant’s proposed legal
service furthers the Regulatory Objective or finds that it presents an
unacceptable risk of consumer harm, the Innovation Office will deny the
proposed licensure, and will include a brief written explanation
supporting the finding. The Innovation Office will develop and propose



                                                                              13 OF 17
the process for appeal of a denial of Sandbox exit to the Supreme Court.
     5.2 Monitoring and Measuring Risk
The Innovation Office has the authority to develop the measurements
by which it assesses and manages risk. The Innovation Office will
identify specific harms presenting the most significant risk to the
Regulatory Objective. All regulated providers, whether in the Sandbox
or in the general market, have a proactive duty to report any unforeseen
risks or harms of which they become aware.
The Innovation Office has the authority to develop specific data
reporting requirements to monitor consumer risk of harm as part of
both Sandbox authorization and general licensing of nontraditional
legal service entities. The Innovation Office will develop processes and
procedures for intake, review, and assessment of incoming data at an
individual provider level, across different market sectors, and across the
market as a whole. The Innovation Office has the authority to increase
or decrease reporting requirements as indicated by the provider’s
performance in the market and compliance with the Innovation Office’s
requirements.
The Innovation Office has the authority to take proactive actions to
effect monitoring of providers and the market as a whole, including but
not limited to market surveys, expert audits, anonymous testing,
product walkthroughs, and ―secret shopper‖ tests. The Innovation
Office will also develop processes and procedures for intake, review,
and assessment of information coming from sources such as media,
other governmental or nongovernmental institutions, whistleblowers,
and academia.
The Utah Supreme Court acknowledges that this regulatory approach
does not remove all possibility of harm from the market and, in fact,
contemplates that sometimes there may be no regulatory enforcement
action even though some consumers may experience harm.
Nevertheless, aggrieved consumers may seek relief and remedy through
traditional channels of civil litigation or, if applicable, the criminal
justice system.
     5.3 Consumer Complaints
The Innovation Office will develop a process by which consumers may
directly complain to the Office. The Innovation Office will develop a
process by which individual complaint information is fed into the larger
data reporting system to contribute to the assessment of risk.
     5.4 Enforcement



                                                                             14 OF 17
The Innovation Office will develop standards for enforcement authority
upon regulated providers in line with the Regulatory Objective and
Regulatory Principles. The Innovation Office will also develop the
range of enforcement mechanisms it deems appropriate, including but
not limited to education, increased reporting requirements, fines, and
suspension or termination of authorization or license. All enforcement
processes and procedures, and all formal enforcement interventions
(e.g., suspension and termination) will be reviewed and approved by
the LSI Committee before submission to the Supreme Court for review
and, if appropriate, approval.
Enforcement will generally be triggered when the evidence of consumer
harm exceeds the applicable acceptable consumer harm threshold.
Enforcement can also be triggered by failure to comply with the
regulatory requirements imposed by the Innovation Office and for lack
of responsiveness.
The Innovation Office will also develop a process for appealing
enforcement decisions to the Innovation Office, and then to the Utah
Supreme Court. The Innovation Office will strive to make the
enforcement process as transparent, targeted, and responsive as
possible.
     5.5 Standards of Conduct
As stated in Rule 5.4(B), lawyers engaging with the nontraditional
provision of legal services, as owners, employees, contractors, or
business partners with Sandbox participants or licensed providers are
required to uphold their duties as required by the Rules of Professional
Conduct.
     5.6 Confidentiality
The Innovation Office shall maintain a commitment to transparency in
the execution of its mission. Identities of applicants to the Sandbox and
the applications themselves are presumed to be public information.
Data reported to the Office as part of an entity’s regulatory
requirements are presumed not be confidential business information
under the Government Records and Access Management Act
(GRAMA). See UTAH CODE § 63G-2-305(1)–(2).
Applicants may designate appropriate, specific information in the
application or any supplemental materials or communications as
confidential business information under the Government Records and
Access Management Act (GRAMA). See UTAH CODE § 63G-2-305(1)–(2).
The Innovation Office will maintain the confidentiality of such
designated information and it will be redacted from the publicly



                                                                            15 OF 17
released documents.
Nothing, however, in this section limits the ability of the Innovation
Office to provide aggregate and anonymized data sets to Court
approved outside researchers, subject to a duly executed data sharing
agreement with the Court.
6. Reporting Requirements
The Innovation Office will be responsible for regular reporting to the
Utah Supreme Court and the public on the status of the Sandbox, the
Sandbox participants, licensed providers, and consumers.
The reports to the Supreme Court must be monthly. Reports to the
Supreme Court must include the following, at a minimum:
   (1) total number of regulated entities and number of entities within
       and outside the Sandbox
   (2) the number of applicants to the Sandbox
   (3) general information about applicants (e.g., type of legal entity,
       ownership makeup, target market, proposed type of service,
       legal need to be addressed, subject matter served)
   (4) numbers of (along with general information)
           (a) applicants recommended for Sandbox entry
           (b) applicants denied Sandbox entry
           (c) sandbox applicants on hold
           (d) applicants recommended to exit Sandbox
           (e) applicants not recommended to exit Sandbox
   (5) numbers and     demographic data (as        available)          on
       consumers served by the Sandbox and licensed providers
   (6) identification of risk trends and responses
   (7) consumer complaints, cumulative and for the applicable month,
       from both within and outside the Sandbox
The Innovation Office will, subject to existing law, have the authority to
determine the nature and frequency of its reports to the public, but
must, at a minimum, report the information identified above on an
annual basis (keeping anonymity and confidentiality as required).
7. Jurisdiction
Entities authorized to practice law within the Sandbox and licensed to
practice law on exiting the Sandbox are subject to the jurisdiction of the



                                                                             16 OF 17
Utah Supreme Court. Any false or misleading statements made by
entities or their members throughout the regulatory relationship,
whether during application, authorization, reporting, monitoring, or
enforcement, whether discovered at the time or at any time afterward,
will be independent grounds for enforcement and an aggravating factor
in any enforcement proceeding based on other conduct. Any fraudulent
or materially misleading statements made by an entity or its members to
the Innovation Office or the Court may result in revocation of the
entity’s authorization to practice law.
8. Termination of Pilot Phase
The Sandbox is a policy tool, adopted by the Utah Supreme Court to
develop a new regulatory approach to nontraditional legal services and
to inform the Supreme Court’s decision-making on rule changes
necessary to support the expanded legal services market. The Supreme
Court has set out a seven-year period of operation for this pilot phase of
the Innovation Office and Sandbox.
At the end of the pilot phase, the Supreme Court will determine if and
in what form the Innovation Office will continue. Sandbox participants
authorized and in good standing at the end of the seven-year period
and for whom there appears to be little risk of consumer harm may, at
the discretion of the Court, be able to continue operations under the
authority of the Innovation Office or other appropriate entity should the
Innovation Office cease to exist. Entities that have successfully exited
the Sandbox will be able to continue operations under the authority of
the Innovation Office or other appropriate entity should the Innovation
Office cease to exist.

September 21, 2021
Date                                 Matthew B. Durrant
                                     Chief Justice




                                                                             17 OF 17
