                                          The Law      Society
                                              of British Columbia ÉMMti

                                                                           W
                                          November 16, 2022


                                           CONFIDENTIAL

                                          Sent via email to rebecca@divii.ca

                                          Divii
                                          201 - 1842 Oak Bay Avenue
                                          Victoria, BC Canada

Donald J. Avison, KC                      Attention: Rebecca F. Alleyne
Fxecu'.kv DkKtor/atiefexecutive Officer



                                          Dear Divii:

                                          Re:    Innovation Sandbox Proposal

                                          Thank you for your proposal to participate in the Law Society of British
                                          Columbia’s (“LSBC”) Innovation Sandbox.

                                          Through the Innovation Sandbox, LSBC is seeking to expand access to legal
                                          services by enabling innovative solutions that address areas of unmet legal
                                          need but which would otherwise contravene the Legal Profession Act, the Law
                                          Society Rules or the Code of Professional Conduct.

                                          The LSBC Executive Committee has reviewed your proposal to provide
                                          services and has agreed to issue to you this “no action” letter.

                                          1. Services
                                          Divii proposes to offer services in the area of family law (the “Services”)
                                          through an online platform at www.divii.ca, which automates the creation of
                                          Separation Agreements, and enables users of the platform to collaborate on
                                          aspects of separation including document disclosure, decision making, and
                                          finalizing the language of a Separation Agreement.
Divii
Attention: Rebecca F. Alleyne
November 16, 2022
Page 2 of 5



       2. No Action

       Based on your proposal (copy attached) and any additional information you
       provided or LSBC obtained in relation to your proposal, LSBC will not initiate
       action to prevent Divii from providing the Services (“no-action”) provided the
       following conditions are met:

       2.1    The information you have provided in support of Divii’s proposal is
              accurate and complete in all respects.

       2.2    Only Divii provides the Services.

      2.3     Divii’s provision of the Services does not present a risk of harm to the
              public or undermine the integrity of the administration of justice.

       2.4    Divii provides information to LSBC regarding Divii’s provision of the
              Services on the first business day of each month in the approved form
              and more frequently if requested.

      2.5     Divii includes the following disclosure on any website, social media
              and other mediums used to promote the Services and Divii provides this
              disclosure in written form to each client prior to commencing any
              engagement:

              My/our services to you are not provided by a lawyer regulated by the
              Law Society of British Columbia. As a result: (a) I/we could be
              required to disclose to third parties your communications with me/us
              and any documents you provide in relation to my/our advice and
              assistance as such communications will not be subject to solicitor-
              client privilege: and (b) I/we am/are not required to have professional
              liability insurance, (c) There is no statutory complaint process in
              relation to the services that I/we provide and (d) the Law Society of
              British Columbia has not evaluated or verified my/our competence,
              character, and/or fitness to provide the services. For more
              information about the Law Society’s innovation sandbox visit
              https://lawsociety. be. ca/sandbox.

      2.6     Divii is expected to deliver the Services in a manner consistent with our
              expectations of lawyers under the Legal Profession Act, the LSBC
Divii
Attention: Rebecca F. Alleyne
November 16, 2022
Page 3 of 5



              Rules and the LSBC Code of Professional Conduct to the extent they
              are applicable.

       2.7    You consent to the disclosure by the Law Society of information about
              your business including your business name, address, website address,
              and the scope of Services which you may provide, this no-action letter,
              and the modification or rescission of the no-action letter, generally on
              its website and in response to inquiries from the public or regulatory
              bodies and for the purpose of informing the public about you and the
              Services you may provide in conjunction with your participation in the
              Innovation Sandbox

       2.8    Divii cooperates fully with any investigation into any complaint LSBC
              receives about the Services and/or your conduct in relation to the
              provision of the Service and Divii responds promptly to requests from
              the LSBC for any information and/or documents in relation to the
              provision of Services.

      2.9     Divii indemnifies and save harmless LSBC, its Benchers, officers,
              agents and employees from all claims, demands, losses, damages, costs,
              fines, penalties and expenses that LSBC, its Benchers, officers, agents
              or employees may sustain, incur, suffer, or be put to at any time, either
              before or after this Agreement ends, which are based upon, arise out of
              or occur, directly or indirectly, by reason of any act or omission in your
              provision of the Services.

      2.10    Divii does not assert, imply or otherwise suggest in any way that the
              no-action letter is an approval, endorsement or certification of the
              quality of Divii’s Services or of Divii’s qualifications, competence or
              fitness to provide the Services.

       3. Rescission

      The Law Society may rescind this no-action letter at any time on written notice
      if

       3.1    Divii fails to meet any of the conditions set out in Part 2 of this letter.
Divii
Attention: Rebecca F. Alleyne
November 16, 2022
Page 4 of 5



       3.2    Divii provides services beyond the scope of your proposal that
              constitute the practice of law as defined in the Legal Profession Act.

       3.3    Divii engages in, or proposes to engage in, conduct in relation to the
              provision of the Services that presents a risk of harm to the public or
              undermines the integrity of the administration ofjustice.

       3.4    Material information that you failed to disclose comes to our attention
              or misinformation is discovered.


      4. Acknowledgement
       By acceptance of this letter, you acknowledge that:

      4.1     This no-action letter is not an endorsement of the quality of the
              Services Divii provides or of Divii’s qualifications, competence or
              fitness to provide the Services.

      4.2     The issuance of this no-action letter is not an agreement on the part of
              LSBC, its Benchers, officers, agents and employees, to insure or
              indemnify Divii or your clients for any claims, demands, losses,
              damages, costs, fines, penalties and/or expenses that may arise in
              relation to Divii’s Services and Divii will remain solely responsible.

      4.3     This no-action letter will take effect from the date of this letter and
              remain in effect until LSBC provides written notice of modification or
              rescission or otherwise determines that other regulatory measures are
              appropriate in relation to the Services.

      4.4     If the LSBC determines that some or all of your Services require a
              licence, Divii agrees to submit an application in that licensing process if
              Divii wishes to continue providing the Services.
Divii
Attention: Rebecca F. Alleyne
November 16, 2022
Page 5 of 5



       Thank you again for your proposal and we trust that Divii will be successful in
       providing the Services to the public.

       Sincerely,
                         t

           1
       Don Avison, KC (he/him)
       Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer
