                                      The Law Society JJ,
                                                   of Brim Columbia mm
                                                                               ■tmW


                                             May 26, 2021


                                             Sent via E-mail

                                             Scott Nicol
                                             Nicol Law Office
                                             414 12 AveNW
                                             Calgary, AB
                                             Email: scott.nicol@,nicollaw.ca

                                             Dear Mr. Nicol:

                                             RE: Innovation Proposal - AP20210007
Donald J. flvison, QC
Executive Direclor/Chief Executive Officer

                                             Thank you for your proposal to participate in the Law Society of British
                                             Columbia’s (“LSBC”) Innovation Sandbox.

                                             Through the Innovation Sandbox, LSBC is seeking to expand access to legal
                                             services by enabling innovative solutions that address areas of unmet legal need
                                             but which would otherwise contravene the Legal Profession Act, the Law Society
                                             Rules or the Code of Professional Conduct.

                                             The LSBC Executive Committee has reviewed your proposal to provide services
                                             and has agreed to issue to you this “no action” letter.


                                             1. Services
                                             You propose to offer the following services (the “Services”):

                                             1.1   Through SimpleArb, provide an online platform that allows parties to enter
                                                   into settlement negotiation and confidentially disclose their offers to settle.
                                                   A claimant enters the amount they are willing to receive and the respondent
                                                   enters the amount they are willing to pay. The amount entered by one party
                                                   is not disclosed to the other party. If the offers match or overlap, the
                                                   SimpleArb system will declare a match. The system will then disclose the
                                                   average of the offers to the parties and an agreement can be formed. If the
                                                   offers do not match or overlap, no information on the offers is shared.


                                  DM3146322
                                       2



2. No Action
Based on your proposal (copy attached) and any additional information you
provided or LSBC obtained in relation to your proposal, LSBC will not initiate
action to prevent you from providing the Services (“no-action”) provided the
following conditions are met:

2.1   The information you have provided in support of your proposal is accurate
      and complete in all respects.

2.2   Only you provide the Services.

2.3   Your provision of the Services does not present a risk of harm to the public
      or undermine the integrity of the administration of justice.

2.4   You provide information to LSBC regarding your provision of the Services
      on the first business day of each month in the approved form and more
      frequently if requested. We are in the process of developing a form for-
      reporting, which will be accessible on the LSBC website. Once it is
      operational, you will be provided with the link to the form.

2.5   You include the following disclosure on any website, social media and other-
      mediums you use to promote the Services and you provide this disclosure in
      written form to each client prior to commencing any engagement:

       My services to you are not provided by a lawyer regulated by the Law
       Society ofBritish Columbia. As a result:
       (a) I could be required to disclose to third parties your communications
       with me and any documents you provide in relation to my advice and
       assistance as such communications will not be subject to solicitor-client
       privilege;
       (b) lam not required to have professional liability insurance, and do not
       carry professional liability insurance (In the event that you do carry
       professional liability insurance, the disclosure of this clause is not
       required);
       (c) There is no statutory complaint process in relation to the services that
       I provide; and
       (d) The Law Society of British Columbia has not evaluated or verified my
       competence, character, and/or fitness to provide the services.
       For more information about the Law Society’s innovation sandbox visit
       https ://www. lawsociety. be. ca/our-initiatives/innovation-sandbox/.



                                           845 Cambie Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6B 4Z9
                                           1604.669.2533 | f604.669.5232
                                           toll free 1.800.903.53001 TTY 604.443.5700
                                           lawsociety.bc.ca
                                                                                              2
                                      3



2.6   You are expected to deliver the Services in a manner consistent with our
      expectations of lawyers under the Legal Profession Act, the LSBC Rules
      and the LSBC Code ofProfessional Conduct to the extent they are
      applicable.

2.7   You consent to the disclosure by the Law Society of your personal
      information, including your name and the scope of Services which you may
      provide, this no-action letter, and the modification or rescission of the no­
      action letter, generally on its website and in response to inquiries from the
      public or regulatory bodies and for the purpose of informing the public
      about you and the Services you may provide in conjunction with your
      participation in the Innovation Sandbox.

2.9   You cooperate fully with any investigation into any complaint LSBC
      receives about the Services and/or your conduct in relation to the provision
      of the Services and you respond promptly to requests from the LSBC for
      any information and/or documents in relation to the provision of Services.

2.10 You indemnify and save harmless LSBC, its Benchers, officers, agents and
     employees from all claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, fines, penalties
     and expenses that LSBC, its Benchers, officers, agents or employees may
     sustain, incur, suffer, or be put to at any time, either before or after this
     Agreement ends, which are based upon, arise out of or occur, directly or
     indirectly, by reason of any act or omission in your provision of the
     Services.

2.11 You do not assert, imply or otherwise suggest in any way that the no-action
     letter is an approval, endorsement or certification of the quality of your
     Services or of your qualifications, competence or fitness to provide the
      Services.


3. Rescission
The Law Society may rescind this no-action letter at any time on written notice if

3.1   You fail to meet any of the conditions set out in Part 2 of this letter.

3.2   You provide services beyond the scope of your proposal that constitute the
      practice of law as defined in the Legal Profession Act.



                                          845 Cambie Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6B 4Z9
                                          1604.669.2533 | f604.669.5232
                                          toll free 1.800.903.53001 TTY 604.443.5700
                                          lawsociety.bc.ca
                                                                                             3
                                         4


3.3       You engage in, or propose to engage in, conduct in relation to the provision
          of the Services that presents a risk of harm to the public or undermines the
          integrity of the administration of justice.

3.4       Material information that you failed to disclose comes to our attention or
          misinformation is discovered.

4. Acknowledgement
By acceptance of this letter, you acknowledge that:

4.1       This no-action letter is not an endorsement of the quality of the Services you
          provide or of your qualifications, competence or fitness to provide the
          Services.

4.2 Nothing in this no-action letter makes you a member of LSBC.

4.3       The issuance of this no-action letter is not an agreement on the part of
          LSBC, its Benchers, officers, agents and employees, to insure or indemnify
          you or your clients for any claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, fines,
          penalties and/or expenses that may arise in relation to your Services and you
          will remain solely responsible.

4.4       This no-action letter will take effect from the date of this letter and remain
          in effect until LSBC provides written notice of modification or rescission or
          otherwise determines that other regulatory measures are appropriate in
          relation to the Services.

4.5       If the LSBC determines that some or all of your Services require a licence,
          you agree to submit an application in that licensing process if you wish to
          continue providing the Services.

Thank you again for your proposal and we trust that you will be successful in
providing the Services to the public.

Sincere^

      i
Don/Vvison, QC
CEO/Executive Director


                                             845 Cambie Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6B 4Z9
                                             1604.669.2533 | f 604.669.5232
                                             toll free 1.800.903.5300 | TTY 604.443.5700
                                             lawsociety.bc.ca
                                                                                                4
