                  OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                  An Office of the Utah Supreme Court




 Legal Sandbox Authorization Materials

           1Law, P.C. / 1Law Legal Services

                            August 22, 2022


Contents

1. Utah Supreme Court Amended Order for Authorization to Practice Law

2. Innovation Office Recommendation to the Court
              In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                                ----oo0oo----

               In re: 1Law, P.C. / 1Law Legal Services

                                      ---


   AMENDED ORDER FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW

Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted
authority to regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing
Order 15, the Utah Supreme Court orders that 1Law P.C. / 1Law Legal Services
(“1Law”) is authorized to practice law within the regulatory sandbox and subject
to the restrictions outlined below.

The Court has reviewed the recommendation of the Office of Legal
Services Innovation (“Innovation Office”) dated August 25, 2020 and
revised September 7, 2021.

1Law was one of the first entities authorized through the Office of Legal
Services Innovation. The company sought amendment of its original
authorization to remove nonlawyer provider and add lawyer sharing
profits with a non-lawyer.

The Innovation Office has assessed the risk of harm to 1Law’s targeted
consumers relative to the risk of harm they currently face and has
determined that the risk of harm presented by 1Law’s services is
Moderate.

In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate
the practice of law in Utah and in keeping with the tenets of Standing
Order 15, the Court now orders as follows:

   1. 1Law is authorized to offer legal services through the following
      models:
         a. Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer
         b. Nonlawyer ownership
         c. Lawyers sharing profits with nonlawyers
                        d. Software provider1 with lawyer involvement2

            2. 1Law’s consumer service area authorization covers:
                   i.     Accident / Injury      ix.       End of Life Planning
                  ii.     Adult Care              x.       Financial Issues
                 iii.     Business               xi.       Healthcare
                 iv.      Criminal Expungement xii.        Housing (Rental)
                  v.      Discrimination       xiii.       Immigration
                 vi.      Domestic Violence    xiv.        Marriage and Family
                vii.      Education             xv.        Public Benefits
               viii.      Employment           xvi.        Real Estate


            3. 1Law remains required to comply with the Moderate innovation
               reporting requirements imposed by the Innovation Office.

            4. 1Law will prominently display the                       following      disclosure
               requirements:
                  a. Innovation Office Badge
                  b. Nonlawyer ownership disclosure
                  c. Nonlawyer provider disclosure

        If 1Law wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must submit
        any such change to the Innovation Office for further assessment. The
        Innovation Office will assess the proposed change and may permit the
        change if it deems the change does not materially increase the risks to
        consumers. If the Innovation Office finds a material increase in risk then it
        will present the issue to the Court for further consideration.

        This authorization is granted for the duration of the existence of the
        Sandbox, or until exit and permanent licensure at the discretion of the
        Court. Authorization is subject to 1Law’s compliance with the conditions
        and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office Manual and the
        Innovation Office Recommendation to the Court and to a verification by


1
 Provider means legal practitioner: a provider who or which is practicing law, including offering legal
advice. (See Innovation Office Manual).
2
 “Lawyer involvement” means a Utah-licensed lawyer both (1) provides guidance and oversight of the
provider at the front end, i.e. through developing training materials and overseeing training of providers
and developing scripts and/or algorithms, and (2) performs regular spot checks of providers services for
quality and accuracy. (See Innovation Office Manual).


                                                    1
the Innovation Office that the company’s services are not causing material
harm to consumers.


DATED this 16th day of August, 2022.



                                        _______________________________
                                               Matthew B. Durrant
                                               Chief Justice




                                    2
                    OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                         An Office of the Utah Supreme Court


        RECOMMENDATION TO THE COURT ON
         REVISED SCOPE OF AUTHORIZATION
                            APP 0002 - 1LAW

                                SEPTEMBER 7, 2021


CONTENTS
Executive Summary                                              1

Sandbox Recommendation                                         2

Proposed Services                                              2

Risk Assessment                                                3
                                                                     Sandbox Recommendation – 1Law

                                 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

           Recommendation: Revise scope of authorization to remove moderate risk
                           service models and limit authorization to nonlawyer
                           ownership (more than 50%)


                   Applicant: 1Law, P.C. / 1Law Legal Services


 Initial Scope of Authorization: Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer

                               50% or more nonlawyer ownership

                               Nonlawyer provider with lawyer involvement

                               Software provider with lawyer involvement


   Proposed Revised Scope of Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer
               Authorization:
                              50% or more nonlawyer ownership


          Sandbox Qualifiers: Partial nonlawyer ownership - over 50%


               Utah Qualifier: Adapted for Utah requirements


    Implementation Qualifier: Basic services ready for market now


Regulatory Objective Qualifier: Some services will be offered free or at low cost,
                                compared to full-service lawyers

                               Many services available remotely or virtually


    Qualitative Requirements: Standardized disclosure statements on website and in
                              mobile applications:
                                 ● Badge
                                 ● Nonlawyer Ownership Disclosure Statement


 Data Reporting Requirements Low risk data reporting requirements
  under revised authorization:




                                               1
                                                                             Sandbox Recommendation – 1Law

                                SANDBOX RECOMMENDATION
   We recommend the Court authorize 1Law, P.C. / 1Law Legal Services (“1Law”) to practice law in the
   state of Utah, subject to such requirements as the Innovation Office may impose.

   We recommend the following scope of authorization:

1. The Innovation Office recommends that the authority be granted for an initial period of 24 months
   with the possibility of extension or permanent authorization. Any such extension or permanent
   authorization would be subject to the applicant complying with the conditions and requirements set
   forth below and also to a verification by the Innovation Office that 1Law has a record of compliance
   with all requirements and the company’s services are not causing harm to consumers.

2. The Innovation Office recommends authorizing 1Law to practice law only across the following
   categories of legal service:

       a. Service Models:
             i.  Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer
            ii.  50% or more nonlawyer ownership
           iii.  Nonlawyer provider with lawyer involvement
           iv.   Software provider with lawyer involvement

       b. Areas of Service:
              i.   Accident / Injury            ix.        End of Life Planning
             ii.   Adult Care                    x.        Financial Issues
            iii.   Business                     xi.        Healthcare
            iv.    Criminal Expungement         xii.       Housing (Rental)
             v.    Discrimination              xiii.       Immigration
            vi.    Domestic Violence           xiv.        Marriage and Family
           vii.    Education                    xv.        Public Benefits
           viii.   Employment                  xvi.        Real Estate

3. Relevant requirements:
      a. Relevant disclosure requirements as outlined in Innovation Office Manual.
      b. Moderate risk data reporting requirements as outlined in Innovation Office Manual.
      a. Compliance with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements.

                                       PROPOSED SERVICES
1Law, founded by a Utah lawyer in good standing, is a legal technology company with more than 50%
nonlawyer ownership and management. 1LAW seeks permission to provide no-cost and low-cost legal
services to assist clients in completing court documents and offering related legal advice using chatbots,
instant messaging, automated interviews, nonlawyer staff, and technology assisted lawyers. 1LAW’s
services will include services for employment and housing and eviction cases, which are areas of


                                                       2
                                                                          Sandbox Recommendation – 1Law

increasing and immediate need. Many of 1LAW’s services will be available remotely and virtually. 1LAW’s
services include legal advice offered by persons who are not licensed Utah lawyers.

1LAW proposes to launch its services via its existing law firm (1LAW, P.C.) and then will transition a
portion of its services to 1LAW Legal Services, a Benefit (B) corporation. The entity will have more than
50% ownership by persons who are not lawyers; partial ownership will be held by a lawyer holding an
active license to practice law in Utah. All lawyers practicing law for or on behalf of 1LAW will maintain
active licenses and will remain subject to the Rules of Professional Responsibility.


                                         RISK ASSESSMENT
             Target Market: Consumers not currently accessing legal services / DIY

       General Assessment: Moderate risk

              Specific Risks:   1. Nonlawyer investment ownership - more than 50%
                                2. Legal practice through technology and nonlawyer providers
                                3. User communications




                                                    3
OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION

     A Division of the Utah Supreme Court


 APPLICATION SUBMISSION
      APP 0002 - 1LAW
          APPLIED MAY 11, 2020
                                                                 Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

SUMMARY
Submitted by Applicant via Email - Edited for Concision


Our Solution

We developed and self-funded a technology solution based on the problems facing rural

communities in Southern Utah. Consumers in these communities are at times hundreds of miles

away from services, so we created a virtual law office where lawyers and consumers can meet

via video and messaging. Additionally, we realized that filing legal forms is not as intuitive for the

general public as it is for lawyers. In response, we built a document automation tool that allows

experts to guide users. While this is rewarding, we have struggled to scale and maintain

engineering or developer talent. Most startups provide equity incentives to early stage

employees and financial backers. Because we are a law firm, we are constrained in scaling the

technology and our business to help those who need to learn about the options available to

them, including reduced cost and free legal services.



We are seeking admission to the Sandbox as a business owned in part by non-lawyers that

delivers legal services through one or more of the following: technology (automated agent),

non-lawyers (practice area specific experts), or lawyers using technology. A video presentation

from NKU Chase College of Law and Southern University Law Center demonstrating a

COVID-19 response developed on the 1LAW platform is attached. We are ready to deploy this

model in Utah as well.



As further set forth in our application, we offer 3 types of service through our virtual law office

(akin to tele-medicine). Our form automation via chat is agile enough to respond to COVID-19

consumer legal issues across the practice area spectrum including but not limited to

landlord/tenant, small business, estate planning, and debtor/creditor. Types of service:



                                                          2
                                                                 Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

    1. Free/low cost - technology driven DIY offerings to consumers. Consumers will fill out

        forms and receive substantive legal advice through an automated agent.

    2. Low/mid cost - A Do it With You (DIWY) service relying heavily on technology with

        non-lawyer assistance.

    3. Improved cost - A Do it For You (DIFY) Augmented legal services in which lawyers use

        technology to assist in procedural aspects while delivering substantive legal services.

        These lawyers will likely be employees of the company rather than partners or

        associates.


Why we need to enter the Sandbox

As a law firm we cannot share fees and as a tech company we cannot provide legal services. We

are excited to work with the Taskforce to provide solutions to the issues that will only continue to

arise. The Sandbox provides an opportunity to overcome the not insignificant hurdle of

proliferating consumer legal services, both financial and technological. As a law firm, we are

limited by the prohibition of non-lawyer ownership and fee sharing to the extent that we can

develop technology but cannot offer equity ownership to the development team. As a practical

matter, there is only so much we can spend out of our own pockets. The current rules prohibit

fee sharing with non-lawyers, delivery of legal services by technology and non-lawyers (except

as LPP’s). "If you can't participate in the upside it is unlikely that you will risk the downside." To

further develop and scale our technology we must partner with non-lawyer owners and test the

delivery of legal services through our virtual legal services platform.



By participating in the Sandbox we can create free and lower cost services. Additionally, through

technology we anticipate price improvement on traditional for-profit services. Scaling and testing

our model will be difficult if not impossible if we continue to be constrained by the existing

prohibitions of rule 5.4.


                                                   3
                                                               Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

Supplemental Materials

Please see the attached supporting information, a sampling of articles and podcasts discussing

our efforts in the A2J space, the slides from our presentation to the taskforce in April, and the

video pitch mentioned above.

   ●   https://youtu.be/Ar7E-wn65VY

   ●   https://www.legalbusinessworld.com/single-post/2019/02/15/Legal-Technology-Lets-Use-

       It-for-Justices-Sake

   ●   https://legaltalknetwork.com/podcasts/un-billable-hour/2018/04/addressing-access-to-jus

       tice-with-blockchain/


Awards and recognitions

   ●   Emerging Technologies 2020 National Law Journal

           ○   https://images.law.com/media/nationallawjournal/supplements/NLJ ELT 2020/m

               obile/index.html

   ●   Above the Law - AltLegal Marketplace Winner

           ○   https://abovethelaw.com/2016/10/a-case-for-great-casetext-wins-alt-legal-innovati

               on-awards/

   ●   LexLab - Fall 2019 Cohort

           ○   http://lexlab.uchastings.edu/accelerator




                                                  4
                                                                Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

                                   I. SERVICE PROVISION
                    Entity Name
                                    1LAW

                         Contact
                                    Jason Velez

              Business Address
                                                          St George, Utah 84770

             Contact Telephone

                  Contact Email

                    Legal Status
                                    Law firm partnership or professional corporation

               Professional No.
                                    Utah State Bar No. 09028




                                II. PROPOSED SERVICES
Tell us about your proposed legal services offering.

Our free legal consult and document services are acutely relevant in the time of COVID-19 and

beyond. We are currently using our technology to proliferate free forms and resources provided

or recommended by the State Courts and government agencies in response to the crisis.


We are a legal services business that provides consumers with virtual legal services, such as

free forms, free consults via IM and video chat, as well as traditional for profit services.


We believe that expanding free and low cost services to the broad consumer market will yield

new clients of our paid services. We use automated chat, mobile apps and web forms to engage

consumers.


It is our hypothesis that a lack of understanding or education on the part of consumers has led

them to avoid engaging legal service providers. We desire to educate and engage consumers

through our technology with the belief that they will become or refer paying clients.


                                                   5
                                                                  Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez


            Standing Order 15: 3.3.2 Within the Innovation Office’s Regulatory Scope
Individuals and entities that carry out the following activities are within the scope of the
Innovation Office’s regulatory authority and are subject to this Standing Order’s requirements:

    ➢ (a) Partnerships, corporations, and companies entirely owned and controlled by
      lawyers; individual lawyers with an active Utah Bar license; and legal services
      nonprofits partnering with a nonlawyer-owned entity to offer legal services as
      contemplated by Rule 5.4B;

    ➢ (b) Nonlawyer owned entities, or legal entities in which nonlawyers are partial owners
      (for profit or nonprofit):

             ○   (i) offering legal practice options whether directly or by partnership, joint
                 venture, subsidiary, franchise, or other corporate structure or business
                 arrangement, not authorized under the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
                 prior to [Month] [Date], 2020, or under Utah Supreme Court Rule of Professional
                 Practice 14-802; or

             ○   (ii)practicing law through technology platforms, or lawyer or nonlawyer staff, or
                 through an acquired law firm.

Please select the most applicable category for your proposed business, service, or product.

3.3.2 (a), 3.3.2 (b) (ii)


                                 III. RISK ASSESSMENT
  Risk No. 1: Consumer achieves an inappropriate or otherwise flawed legal result.

Please identify the specific model, service or product innovations that are not permitted under the
traditional rules governing professional conduct and/or the practice of law.

Under the current Rules our proposed model is prohibited, and our ability to deliver COVID-19

services such as free forms and consults is significantly impaired. Admission to the Sandbox

presents an opportunity to scale our ability to help in this time of crisis.

Please explain whether and how your target consumers may currently be at risk of achieving
an inaccurate or inappropriate legal result.




                                                   6
                                                              Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

The difference in outcomes between people with legal help and without is staggering. One

example of immigration indicates that detained immigrants were 10.5 times more likely to

succeed when they are represented. The benefit of being represented is analogous across all

areas of practice. It may not always be 10.5 times the benefit or detriment but the lack of

guidance through the process is detrimental for most consumers.


Currently many people are not accessing quality or qualified services. The error rate of people

performing self-help without the ability to review with Counsel or Counsel prepared information

leaves many consumers at risk of receiving inaccurate or inappropriate results.


Additionally a lack of free resources across the spectrum of legal services, either subject matter

or income determinante, prevents many people from even taking the first step of educating

themselves or seeing what help may be available.


Please explain whether and how your target consumers may be at risk of achieving an
inaccurate or inappropriate legal result using your legal service or model.

We believe that we can sufficiently mitigate the risks however with any new solution there is a

possibility.


The do it yourself (DIY) products we anticipate offering run the risk that someone may

mistakenly interpret the information and make an incorrect input.


People may think that by contacting a virtual agent they are engaging an actual professional.


Please explain how you plan to identify whether the risk of your consumers achieving an
inaccurate or inappropriate legal result is occurring and how you plan to mitigate this risk.




                                                 7
                                                                Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

Our plan is to be actively monitoring and engaging with platform users as we scale the product.

With the appropriate investment at the onset in human support we believe that the long-term

product will be sustainable.


We plan to have appropriate disclaimers, acknowledgements by the consumer and quality

control early on to validate the model. This means that even if people are using a DIY product

we will reach out to them both via satisfaction surveys and following up after a period of time to

seek feedback.


We offer telephone support, chat support, webform contact support in order to identify risks to

the consumer.


Our products additionally offer a “safety valve,” that is the ability to seek human intervention

when a product is offered virtually. As well as a lifeline to a human legal professional.



 Risk No. 2: Consumer fails to exercise legal rights through ignorance or bad advice.
Please explain whether and how your target consumers may currently be at risk of failing to
exercise legal rights through ignorance or bad advice.

Similar to the first question, people are often not engaging the legal system early enough. For

example, a collection matter may end up at judgment and garnishment before someone

becomes engaged. Many times people are left to guess when filling out forms without sufficient

context. We believe that we can provide a layer of context to the legal system.


There is a general lack of awareness as to what resources are available. Unless people have

direct contact to an attorney or other legal professional they often do not know where to start.

We are seeking to be a resource of both our own services as well as other public-based services

that may apply to the individual.


Please explain whether and how your target consumers may be at risk of failing to exercise
legal rights through ignorance or bad advice using your service or model.


                                                  8
                                                                  Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

We anticipate that our product will result in an increased awareness of the consumer that should

help them understand their rights. However in growing our services to a broader base of

consumers it is possible that they receive or interpret information that results in failing to

exercise their legal rights.


Please explain how you plan to identify whether the risk of your consumers failing to
exercise legal rights through ignorance or bad advice is occurring and how you plan to
mitigate this risk.

Rigorous initial oversight will help both identify and mitigate ignorance and bad advice. This

opportunity is new to us as lawyers as well as the potential consumers. We believe that more

oversight at the beginning will allow us to find the appropriate level of long-term oversight, which

we anticipate being less than what is needed initially.


Here understanding your customer is extremely important. Failing to exercise legal rights is

mitigated by the fact that our information is generated and created by licensed Utah attorneys. In

the event that there is the potential for ambiguity or misinterpretation by the individual we will

offer human oversight, such as having the matter passed on to a reviewing attorney.


Our hope is that the level of service should not be significantly, if at all, different from the advice

they would receive via a consultation with a lawyer. Our products are meant to streamline the

gathering of information so that a lawyer can provide substance specific to a consumer inquiry.


Our plan is to be very lawyer oversight driven as we engage the consumers. This is just good

business to make sure that the brand and service reputation exceeds the expectations of those

who engage the product.


Please explain whether and how your target consumers may currently be at risk of
purchasing an unnecessary or inappropriate legal service (i.e. without your service or model).

In 20 years of practicing law in Utah it is not my experience that consumers are too often

purchasing unnecessary products or services. As lawyers we have a duty to not engage in


                                                   9
                                                                 Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

frivolous litigation or unnecessary paperwork. With that in mind the uninformed consumer may

purchase a “Hail Mary” or solution even though it does not properly fit their situation.


Additionally certain subscription services may not be appropriate for consumers that don’t have

legal needs on a regular basis. There may also be other predatory practices, similar to loan

modifications in the housing crisis that may arise from time to time. These predatory practices

may be the point at which our target consumers are most at risk.



    Risk No. 3: Consumer purchases an unnecessary or inappropriate legal service.

Please explain whether and how consumers may currently be at risk of purchasing an
unnecessary or inappropriate legal service using your service or model.

It is our personal belief that the consumers we intend on targeting are among the least likely to

engage services because of the cost perception. Our hope is to educate the consumers so that

even if they were to not engage our platform they would be able to meaningfully engage other

services.


Our fundamental model is that by promoting awareness and providing free basic services that

we will build a long-term loyal future client base.


For these reasons we believe our platform has a low risk of offering unnecessary or

inappropriate services.


Please explain how you plan to identify whether the risk of your consumers purchasing an
unnecessary or inappropriate legal service is occurring and how you plan to mitigate this
risk.

Our model is not predicated on the sale of legal services but rather providing free basic services

in the hope that clients will engage us for traditional for-profit services. Just as our current law

practice does not sell unnecessary or inappropriate services our new business model will not

either.



                                                  10
                                                               Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

A consumer friendly refund policy that we have as a law firm will further mitigate the risk of

purchasing unnecessary and inappropriate services.


Please identify any other potential material risks your proposed legal service offering or
model may hold for targeted consumers and explain specifically how you propose to identify
and control for those risks.

The biggest risk I can see through the proposed platform is a client reaching out and not being

taken care of. Knowing this in advance we are very concerned and aware of the need for proper

oversight while we scale the platform. It is anticipated that more attorney hands on the initial

client interactions will allow us to develop the system that requires less procedural input from the

attorneys in the long run.


We will continue to maintain a client trust account. We are also familiar with flat fee and payment

plans that we use in our current law practice. We will continue these best practices.


Regarding cyber security our platform was penetration tested in July 2019 and we engage in

ongoing vulnerability testing. We practice heightened cyber security due to the duty owed to our

clients and potential clients.


Again, we are practicing lawyers seeking to create a legal services business and we have no

intention or desire to abandon our professional responsibilities and put our licenses at risk.


We currently use a CRM to conduct conflict checks and will continue to do so as we scale. It is

anticipated that the view of conflict will be based more on the underlying matter rather than the

parties previous affiliation with the platform. For example, representing someone on a matter

would not forever preclude the platform from representing an adverse party in the future any

more than it currently does under the rules.


Finally though mentioned over and over again early oversight of the platform will be the biggest

mitigating factor in addressing risks to the consumer.


                                                 11
                                                                Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

We are not so large that the anticipated growth would go unnoticed and uncared for. We seek to

govern the legal services aspect of the business in the same manner we govern ourselves as

lawyers.


Please indicate which categories of data you will be able to provide at regular intervals to the
Innovation Office.

   ●   Non-financial outcome data (legal result achieved)

   ●   Output data (number of consumers served, case filings in areas where service leads to

       litigation)

   ●   Returns for error fixes

   ●   Consumer satisfaction survey data

   ●   Consumer complaint data

   ●   Demographic info may be difficult if not collected as part of another filing. Where/when

       available we are willing to share.


Please describe your consumer complaint process.


Whether complaint is received through customer service by staff, online complaint form, or

email, we follow up generally in the manner receivers with written response where possible.



                           IV. BENEFITS TO UTAH CONSUMERS
Will your service contribute to having more legal services for Utah consumers?


Yes, it is our hypothesis that most consumers are unaware of the legal services that are

available to them. By providing free basic services, including free legal consultation via chat or

video conference we will broaden the access that consumers have to legal help and services.


Our plan is to digitize the expertise held by the lawyers within our firm as well as lawyers who

are willing to contribute to the platform and provide this expertise in many cases for free. If there



                                                 12
                                                                Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez

is a need or certain aspects of the expertise that the professional feels can be monetized we will

offer affordable entry points to that knowledge.


Additionally our plan is to market the availability of the services and just the awareness raised

alone by the marketing effort will be a benefit to consumers.


Will your service contribute to having better legal services for Utah consumers?


Yes, we believe that a platform that is curated by experienced Utah lawyers and legal

professionals will provide very direct and practice area specific information to the consumer. Also

by increasing access to the lawyers themselves via chat and video, consumers will have the

benefit of reviewing their situation with a professional.


Better informed consumers will ultimately lead to better legal services for themselves as well as

the rest of the legal system users.


Will your service contribute to having less expensive legal service options available to Utah
consumers?

Absolutely, the ultimate goal of the platform is to provide legal services along the entirety of the

economic spectrum.


Our mission is to provide free legal help to the people that need it and the paid legal help to

those who can afford it, with quality service on both ends of the spectrum. While we recognize

that this is ambitious we believe that through technology and an aggregation of resources it is

possible.


                         V.      COVID-19 PANDEMIC RELIEF
Please describe how your proposed service or product satisfies the criteria:




                                                   13
                                                               Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez




Our core technology which includes secure instant messaging and video conferencing, chat bot

form and self-help automation is fully developed and in use by lawyers, law schools and legal

clinics in Utah and across the country.


The technology was built by a Utah law firm and Utah licensed lawyers with adherence to the

rules of professional conduct and Utah state law.


Our platform Is already providing the following free documents: a living will, an

employer/employee notice, and a landlord tenant letter in response to the COVID-19 crisis. Also

free instant messaging and video chat with lawyers is available for people with issues related to

the crisis.


We anticipate providing more free forms and services for the needs identified as a result of

COVID-19. We also understand that e-signature and e-notarization will continue to be pressing

issues as social distancing continues. We are prepared to work with regulators on solutions to

these issues. We are seeking a waiver of rule 5.4 and likely 7.2 to allow us to convert our law

firm into a legal services business and bring on non-lawyer equity or profit ownership to both

scale the delivery of legal services and to market and educate consumers to our services.


                                VI.       FINAL THOUGHTS
Is there anything else you want us to know about your proposed legal service?


We believe that we are uniquely situated as Utah lawyers, technology developers and members

of the global legal tech community to participate and contribute to the success of the Sandbox

and the goals of increasing Access to Justice.




                                                 14
     Sandbox Application 0002 - Jason Velez




15
