                        In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                                                oo0oo

            In re: Application of Community Justice Advocates of Utah

                                                   ---

    AMENDED ORDER FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW

    Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted
    authority to regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order
    No. 15, the Utah Supreme Court orders that Community Justice Advocates of Utah
    is authorized to practice law within the legal regulatory sandbox and subject to the
    restrictions outlined below.

    Community Justice Advocates of Utah (“CJAU”) is hereby authorized to partner
    with curriculum providers, such as Innovation 4 Justice (“i4J”) and community-
    based organizations to provide free legal services to underserved Utahns in the areas
    of medical debt, housing, and domestic violence as outlined in its proposal and
    Amendment Request. CJAU will provide oversight, malpractice insurance, training,
    and support to non-lawyer legal advocates who complete initial legal training with i4J
    and/or CJAU. CJAU sets the eligibility criteria for community-based organizations
    and their employees and volunteers to participate in CJAU programs. As detailed
    below, the limited-scope legal services will be provided by trained and certified
    non-lawyer community justice legal advocates (nontraditional legal providers).1

    Medical Debt Legal Advocacy Program
    Non-lawyer community justice advocates certified by i4J may provide the
    following limited assistance to consumers in Utah:
     1. Legal information;
     2. Legal process assistance;
     3. Form completion assistance;
     4. Legal advice related to resolution of medical debt;
     5. Negotiation on behalf of the consumer;
     6. Referrals

    Housing Stability Legal Advocacy
    Non-lawyer community justice advocates certified by i4J may provide the limited
    assistance to consumers in Utah as described in Standing Order No. 16.

1
  This order amends the previous amended order granted on July 15, 2025, by adding “volunteers” to the
first paragraph
Domestic Violence - Certified Advocate Partners Program
Non-lawyer community justice advocates certified by Timpanogos Legal Center
between 2021 and 2025 or by CJAU during or after 2025 may provide the following
limited assistance to consumers in Utah:

1. Legal information;
2. Legal process assistance;
3. Form completion assistance;
4. Basic legal advice on completion of forms and court presentation;
5. In-court assistance permitted by rule 4-810 of the Utah Supreme Court Rules
   of Professional Practice;
6. Referrals

Utah-licensed lawyers working with CJAU remain otherwise subject to the Utah
Rules of Professional Conduct. However, to the extent that CJAU’s service model
could be found to implicate Utah Rule of Professional Conduct 5.3, the Court
waives application of that rule.

CJAU shall conform to the Moderate Innovation reporting requirements imposed
by the Office of Legal Services Innovation (“Innovation Office”).

CJAU will prominently display the Non-Lawyer Provider Disclosure provided by
the Innovation Office.

This Authorization is granted for the duration of the existence of the Sandbox, or
until otherwise determined by the Court. Authorization is subject to CJAU’s
compliance with the conditions and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office
Manual and verification that the entity’s services are not causing material harm to
consumers. If CJAU wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must submit
any such change to the Innovation Office for further assessment.

This Authorization does not relieve CJAU, its employees, or any associated lawyer
from compliance with applicable state and federal laws and any rules or regulations
of another state, government agency, or other governing body. CJAU is responsible
for ensuring that it complies with the laws, rules, and regulations of any other
affected jurisdiction.

DATED this 30th day of June 2026.

                                           _______________________________
                                            Jill M. Pohlman
                                            Associate Chief Justice
                                            Utah Supreme Court
                                                                      Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                                  Description of Services
Describe in detail the business model and/or services for which you are requesting Sandbox
authorization. Please identify: (1) who will provide the legal services (i.e. lawyers,
nonlawyers, and/or software); (2) who will manage and oversee the direct legal providers;
(3) how consumers will access/receive these services; and (4) what your services will do for
consumers.

                                               Model Overview

Community Justice Advocates of Utah (CJAU) will partner with curriculum providers and
community-based organizations to provide free legal services to underserved Utahns in the areas
of medical debt, housing, and domestic violence.

We will partner with legal curriculum providers (“Training Partners”) who have a history of
creating effective community justice advocate training courses. Our Training Partners will provide
training to nonlawyers and, upon completion of training, notify CJAU of the individual’s eligibility
to begin providing services under the oversight of CJAU. We will provide oversight, malpractice
insurance, ongoing training, and support to the nonlawyers; in turn, they will report information
to us to audit their services, comply with Sandbox reporting requirements, and evaluate the
effectiveness of the program.

We are seeking approval for three interventions. They are listed below next to the Training Partner
associated with the intervention. All three interventions have been previously approved by a
Standing Order or within the Utah Regulatory Sandbox.
   1. Medical Debt Legal Advocacy: Innovation for Justice 1
   2. Housing Stability Legal Advocacy: Innovation for Justice 2
   3. Certified Advocate Partners Program: Timpanogos Legal Center

    I.       Provision of Legal Services

Nonlawyer legal advocates (hereafter “Community Justice Advocates” or “CJAs”) will provide
legal services to individuals of their community. CJAs will not be directly employed by CJAU.
They will be employed by community-based organizations or associations and provide legal
services as part of their job. This is the model used by Timpanogos Legal Center in Utah,
Innovation for Justice’s community partners in Arizona and Utah, and Alaska Legal Services
Corporation in Alaska. None of these organizations have found increased risk by training, or
“upskilling,” individuals at outside organizations who then provide services. We have found that
individuals within the social service sector have an interest in providing limited scope legal advice
to better assist their communities, but currently lack the training and tools to do so. 3 If our
authorization is granted, we will begin working with community-based organizations to identify
potential CJAs. Our Training Partners will also use existing connections to identify potential CJAs.

1
  Training created for Holy Cross Ministries and AAA Fair Credit Foundation following their sandbox authorizations.
2
  Supreme Court of the State of Utah Standing Order No. 16, effective March 9, 2023.
3
  Balser, C. et al., Leveraging unauthorized practice of law reform to advance access to justice, 18 L.J. FOR SOC.
JUST. 66, 92-94 (2023).
                                                                  Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                              Description of Services


CJAs generally have experience adjacent to the legal services they will be providing, and may
have experience providing legal information, bringing some practical experience and
understanding of the populations to be served. For example, we anticipate that many Medical Debt
CJAs will be community health workers or social workers. Domestic Violence CJAs are generally
victim advocates who typically attend civil protective order court hearings. CJAs will be eligible
to complete multiple training certifications; for example, a nonprofit may request that one of their
housing coordinators become certified as both a Housing CJA and a Domestic Violence CJA.

We will maintain a directory of active CJAs and their organizational affiliation, which we would
be able to provide to the Office of Legal Services Innovation at any time. We plan to provide a
publicly available directory on our website as well, but CJAs or their organizations will be able to
opt-out of appearing on that list if desired.

To be considered for training and oversight, individuals must meet the following minimum criteria:
    1) be employed by an organization that does work in or adjacent to the area of law of the
       training (the organization cannot be subject to disqualification from submitting their own
       application to the Office of Legal Services Innovation due to disbarment or criminal history
       at the ownership or managerial oversight levels);
    2) have consent from their organization to participate in the training and to provide legal
       services; and
    3) agree to not charge the client for legal services received.

CJAs will be able to provide legal services and educate clients on their options, even when clients
do not realize they are facing a legal issue. Research has shown that individuals don’t consider
many civil legal problems to be “legal issues,” instead thinking of them as “bad luck,” and many
considered the problems as “private,” thus being inappropriate to receive help from a third party. 4
Some individuals believed there was no need to get advice on their situation, or that it wouldn’t
make a difference even if they did seek help from a third party. 5 One critical role of CJAs is to
identify potential or realized legal issues and educate clients on their rights, defenses, and options
in their specific situation. Community-based organizations already provide intake screening to
community members, and with proper legal training and the ability to ask the right questions, CJAs
can identify legal problems and provide advice in that screening session or schedule a follow-up
meeting for more in-depth assistance. They are also trained in trauma-informed advocacy and can
apply those skills to empower their clients and increase the client’s capacity to engage with their
legal problems.

CJAs will be working at organizations that “potentially interface with consumers at an earlier point
in the timeline of their civil legal needs (i.e. the rent “eats first,” so community members
experiencing housing instability may likely go to a food pantry before a housing lawyer).” 6 Using

4
  Rebecca L. Sandefur, Bridging the Gap: Rethinking Outreach for Greater Access to Justice, 37 U. ARK. LITTLE
ROCK L. REV. 721, 725–26 (2015).
5
  Id.
6
  Balser, supra note 3, at 84.
                                                             Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                         Description of Services
CJAs embeds an opportunity for early legal intervention as they also work to provide other
stabilizing and supportive services such as utility assistance and public benefits. Another benefit
of early intervention is that there are generally more options for the client than when the problem
has progressed further (i.e. connecting a tenant with rental assistance funds and employment
resources when they are struggling to make payments, instead of counseling them on their limited
options when an eviction notice is posted).

   II.     Management and Oversight of Alternative Legal Providers

CJAU staff will oversee the provision of legal services by CJAs. CJAs will be required to report
client and case information to CJAU, which will be periodically audited by an attorney with
experience in that area of law. Audits (or “service reviews”) will look at a sample of services and
review the quality and accuracy of services. They will happen at least twice annually but may
happen more frequently as deemed necessary by CJAU. The attorney conducting the service
review will either be employed by CJAU or will be a pro bono or contract attorney associated with
CJAU who has experience in that area of law and education on the scope of services the advocates
may provide. The information we collect from CJAs will be more robust than that required by the
Sandbox and will be detailed enough to reveal legal analysis for each consumer’s unique case.
This will enable us to spot potential issues with the program as a whole or individual advocates
during service reviews.

The attorneys who review completed services will also be available by phone to advocates when
legal or ethical questions arise.

If any concerns arise regarding how a particular case was handled or a trend of negative
outcomes—either from a particular advocate or from a program as a whole—the issue will be
raised for review by CJAU’s Executive Director and, if necessary, CJAU’s Board, and/or the
Training Partner who provided the initial training. A review of information will be completed and
CJAU will, as necessary, reach out to individual CJAs or the agency that employs them to resolve
the issue.

CJAU will also work with Training Partners and other attorneys with experience in the relevant
areas of law to provide ongoing training, similar to CLEs provided to attorneys and licensed
paralegal practitioners. This will include legislative or case law updates, reinforcement of training
material, or areas identified as needing additional training. CJAU will also hold periodic
roundtables with practicing CJAs where CJAs can connect with each other, staff cases, and share
concerns and solutions. CJAU’s Executive Director will be present to provide legal guidance,
answer questions, collect concerns and suggestions, and build camaraderie among CJAs.

   III.    Consumer Access to Services

Our target clients are approaching community-based organizations for assistance with another
aspect of their situation—financial, personal, professional, etc.—and will receive services from a
community-based worker. Clients will present at an organization, and during intake or service
                                                               Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                           Description of Services
provision, CJAs will be able to screen for legal issues. If a client presents a potential or current
legal issue, the CJA will explain the legal services they are able to provide and, if the client is
interested in receiving legal services, will sign a Limited Representation Agreement. The CJA will
then be able to provide the legal services they are authorized to administer.

One benefit of this model is that community-based workers and the organizations they work for
generally have an established relationship of trust with the communities they serve. Community
members already look to these organizations to receive services relevant to them, where the
creation of a new organization would require a significant investment in time and resources to
establish the trust and rapport needed for individuals to be willing to reach out for help. 7

       IV.      Detailed Explanation of Services and the Benefit for Consumers

Each program aims to assist with low-complexity legal problems in a focused area of law; this
contrasts with attorneys and LPPs, who can assist on a wide range of issues. As each program
serves different legal needs, a detailed explanation of services is provided for each individual
program.

             A. Medical Debt Legal Advocacy (Medical Debt CJAs)

This program is focused on “upstream” interventions to help clients avoid potential debt collection
actions.
    • Limited Assistance – Issue Spotting: When providing intake services, screen for potential
        legal issues and collect information on medical bills, open debt collection cases, and
        existing judgments. This also includes work to uncover unknown medical debt, such as
        calling hospitals, service providers, and collections agencies with the client present to
        inquire about financial accounts. They will also call the Department of Workforce Services
        to see if the client has had open cases in the past.
    • Limited Assistance – Legal Advice: Advise regarding private and public insurance options
        and financial aid applications, including how immigration status may affect their options.
        Identify legal levers in an individual’s case that can be used for settlement negotiations.
        Advise on available options to reduce or resolve outstanding medical debts, including
        potential legal consequences. Evaluate and advise on whether bankruptcy is an option for
        the client and refer to a bankruptcy attorney for further advice. Counsel clients on what
        action to take if the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act has been violated.
    • Limited Assistance – Document/Form Completion: Explain and assist with court forms and
        court processes, including answers, dispositive motions, requests for discovery, and
        motions to set aside the judgment.
    • Extensive Assistance – Negotiation of a Settlement Without Litigation: Medical Debt CJAs
        will be trained on legal negotiation skills and will be able to use those skills and their legal
        knowledge to reach out to collection agencies to negotiate a payment plan, reduced balance,
        or discharge of the debt.

7
    Balser, supra note 3, at 86–88.
                                                               Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                           Description of Services
    •   Referral: Make referrals to human, social, or health services, or lawyer, legal aid, or pro
        bono services as appropriate for the client to receive additional medical debt or legal
        assistance.

Benefit for Clients:
The Problem. Innovation for Justice has compiled a Report outlining the need for legal intervention
on behalf of medical debt defendants; the following information was pulled from their report.
Currently, 98% of medical debt defendants in Utah have no legal counsel, and 72% of defendants
do not engage in the court system once a case is filed, resulting in default judgments. Nearly 75%
of defendants have default judgements that are, on average, two times higher than the original
medical debt. Upstream in the process, 1 in 4 Americans report struggling to pay for medical care.
20% of Americans have medical debt on their credit report, with a combined $81 billion owed.
Individuals who are unable to pay for medical care will either incur medical debt to receive care
or will avoid receiving care in order to not take on more debt, resulting in declining physical and
mental health. In addition, “default judgments translate into wage garnishments, liens, civil arrests,
and the inability to secure housing, credit, and employment. Medical debt is also a leading cause
of foreclosures and bankruptcies, with more than half of bankruptcy debtors having medical
debts.” 8

Current Access to Services. One of the first interventions when someone needs medical care but
can’t afford it is to look at potential insurance options. Individuals who are uninsured or
underinsured may have information from healthcare providers or community workers about
Medicare, Medicaid, and the health insurance marketplace. However, many individuals are not
aware of their eligibility for these services or may not know how to access them. When medical
debt is turned over to collections or a case is filed in the courts, nearly all defendants are unable to
secure legal counsel. Utah Legal Services provides some support in consumer issues, and the S.J.
Quinney Pro Bono Initiative provides some legal advice for debtors at their Debtor’s Law and
Street Law clinics, but they can’t provide representation. Participation in the legal system without
counsel can be overwhelming, evident in the default rate for debt collection cases in Utah.

Early Problem Detection. One goal of the program is to identify and work to solve legal problems
before the issue is sent to court. Medical Debt CJAs will receive training on common issues clients
experience prior to a case being sent to court and potential solutions—including securing insurance
coverage, working with collections to negotiate a payment plan, and understanding the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act and what to do if it has been violated. They are also trained in trauma-
informed advocacy and can apply those skills to empower their clients and increase their capacity
to engage with their legal problems.

Increased Awareness of Legal Rights. Regardless of where in the medical debt process clients
are—not seeking medical care due to inability to pay, having recently received care, being unable
to pay a bill, being in collections, having an active collections case or existing judgement—

8
 Innovation for Justice, DECEMBER 2020 INTERIM REPORT: LEVERAGING THE UTAH SANDBOX TO ADVANCE LEGAL
EMPOWERMENT FOR UTAH COMMUNITY MEMBERS EXPERIENCING MEDICAL DEBT (2020), https://docs. google.com/
presentation/d/1Zkpb_Sq-xbmTFGQrs5nApmi9IBoa46flWHTg7Zp4DXo/edit?usp=sharing.
                                                            Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                        Description of Services
Medical Debt CJAs will be able to provide legal advice to educate clients on their options and
rights, and clients will be able to make more informed decisions about their situation, removing
the stress required to learn about options without the assistance of counsel and needing to guess
on how laws apply to their situation.

Assistance Within the Court System. If a claim has been filed, Medical Debt CJAs can help clients
prepare for court, assist clients in filing form answers, counterclaims, requests for discovery, and
dispositive motions.

Summarized Benefits. Clients who access the services of a Medical Debt CJA will have a better
understanding of their rights and responsibilities regarding their medical debt, regardless of
whether a case has been filed. In Innovation for Justice’s pre-design work in building this
intervention model, they found that lack of communication between creditors and debtors is one
of the primary reasons medical debt is not resolved before being sent to court. Debtors are
overwhelmed and may be unaware of options and resources and wish they could have an advocate
assisting them in the process; this program would enable that advocacy. We anticipate these
services will result in better outcomes than are currently obtained by self-represented litigants in
Utah.

       B. Housing Stability Legal Advocacy (Housing CJAs)

Housing CJAs will provide the following services:
   • Limited Assistance – Issue Spotting: Screen for potential legal issues or fair housing issues
      during intake screening.
   • Limited Assistance – Legal Advice: Provide advice regarding tenant rights and options best
      fitting the client’s situation. Housing CJAs will be trained to identify whether a lease
      provision violates the law or if an eviction can be challenged. They will also be able to
      assess whether and how an eviction can be expunged and help clients through that process.
      They will also be able to screen for legal defenses and advise tenants on post-judgment
      consequences such as garnishments or liens.
   • Limited Assistance – Client Preparation: Assist a client in preparing for an eviction hearing,
      including assistance with processes and legal arguments that can be made. They will also
      help clients collect and prepare evidence.
   • Limited Assistance – Document/Form Completion: Assist clients using court-approved
      forms in eviction cases. In cases where a court-approved form does not exist, such as a
      Notice of Deficient Conditions, CJAU will provide a standard form to the CJAs.
   • Limited assistance – Court Attendance: Attend court hearings and sit at counsel’s table.
      The Housing CJA would not be able to address the Court unless explicitly invited to do so
      and would be unable to address opposing counsel. They would be allowed to quietly
      prompt their client and hand them evidence, as needed.
   • Extensive Assistance – Alternative Dispute Resolution: Negotiate with property owners to
      help keep clients housed when there is a threat of eviction. This may include negotiating
      payment plans or a longer period of time for the client to remain in the property while
      securing new housing.
                                                                   Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                               Description of Services
    •   Referral: Make referrals to human, social, or health services, or lawyer, legal aid, or pro
        bono services as appropriate for the client to receive additional housing assistance or legal
        assistance.

Benefit for Clients:
The Problem. Currently, many clients facing potential or actual eviction have little access to legal
services. The 2020 Justice Gap Report discovered that only 10% of people in Utah experiencing
a legal problem, such as an eviction, get legal aid, and in those cases, only 9% of services relate to
housing matters. 9 Those who do receive legal services experience significant benefits. Innovation
for Justice reports that “legal services can increase the likelihood that a renter remains housed,
receives rent reductions and necessary repairs, and negotiates more favorable settlements such as
more time to find replacement housing. But current legal service resources are insufficient to meet
the need, and when legal services are focused on court-involved housing issues, tenants and
advocates have little time to problem-solve.” 10

Current Access to Services. Housing instability has wide-reaching implications on individuals and
communities affected. Currently, tenants must navigate “social services for rental and resource
assistance, and are being referred to legal services for advocacy.” 11 That fracturing of services
providers is problematic for a tenant facing multiple life stressors, particularly given the imbalance
between the legal needs of tenants and the legal services available to them. Tenants who do try to
seek legal aid may be unsuccessful because of the inability of current providers to meet the level
of demand. Tenants may be unable or ill-equipped to participate in their case because of the
complexity of the legal system; in Utah, there is a 36% default rate for evictions.

Early Problem Detection. Advocates will identify and work to solve legal problems before the
issue is sent to court. Housing CJAs will receive training on common issues tenants experience
prior to eviction, including rights and obligations of tenants and landlords, and on strategies to
overcome these problems, such as the negotiation of a payment plan or completion of a notice of
deficient conditions.

Assistance with Court Preparation. If the problem has already resulted in a case being filed,
Housing CJAs will be able to advise tenants on procedural rules involved in eviction proceedings,
case timelines, and how to prepare for hearing by advising clients on defenses and on what
evidence to provide to the Court. These CJAs would be able to attend court with their self-
represented client and provide quiet promptings to the client, but not address the Court directly,
lending psychological support to their clients during a highly stressful interaction. For cases that
are too complex for the CJA, the CJA will refer the tenant to legal aid or pro bono attorneys and
be able to provide clear information on legally relevant facts to the attorney.

9
  Shawn Teigen, et al., The Justice Gap: Addressing the Unmet Legal Needs of Lower-Income Utahns, THE UTAH
FOUND., 5 and 9 (2020),
https://www.utahbarfoundation.org/static/media/UBFJusticeGapFullReport.e99dbe0b776f9580a13f.pdf.
10
   Innovation for Justice, Report to Arizona and Utah Supreme Courts: Expanding Arizona’s LP and Utah’s LPP
Program to Advance Housing Stability, INNOVATION FOR JUST., 11 (2020), https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j-
K2L1FOm6lFkXKkSZ89MeEumuFeGtuBQJ2-8ocTx5w/edit.
11
   Id. at 12.
                                                              Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                          Description of Services


After an Eviction. If a tenant has already been through the eviction process, they can meet with a
Housing CJA to better understand the implications of the judgment. Housing CJAs will be trained
on post-judgment procedures, how to reduce damages, and how to determine next steps. They will
also be able to help clients remove evictions from credit and housing reports, if the eviction is
eligible. They will also be trained to help tenants find and apply for assistance programs and
identify fair housing issues as tenants look for new housing.

Summarized Benefits. Tenants who access these services will have a better grasp of their rights
and options, instead of assuming that they have no options. They will be able to make informed,
meaningful decisions given their specific circumstances, regardless of where in the process their
legal issue is. Tenants who access services through CJAs will be also be in a better position to
avoid downstream consequences of evictions, including needing to rely on homeless shelters,
having an eviction on their record affecting their credit score and ability to find new housing,
struggling to qualify for subsidized housing due to their record, and needing to reconcile the effects
of eviction on their family, job, transportation, and mental and physical well-being.

       C. Certified Advocate Partners Program (Domestic Violence CJAs)

Domestic Violence CJAs will provide the following services:
  • Limited Assistance – Legal Advice: Screen cases of individuals interested in requesting a
      civil protective order or civil stalking injunction and advise clients of which order, if any,
      they may qualify for, how strong their case is, and whether the client should first consider
      other legal or non-legal interventions. They can also advise on whether the client can
      modify, extend, or dismiss a protective order.
  • Limited Assistance – Document/Form Completion: Draft the request for a civil protective
      order or civil stalking injunction, using court-approved forms, on behalf of their client,
      using the information they have elicited from their client. They are also trained to assist
      with modification, extension, and dismissal forms.
  • Limited Assistance – Client Preparation: Prepare clients for court hearings, including by
      practicing legal arguments and advising how to present evidence.
  • Limited Assistance – Court Attendance: Attend court hearings and sit at counsel’s table.
      The Domestic Violence CJA would not be able to address the Court unless explicitly invited
      to do so and would be unable to address opposing counsel. They would be allowed to
      quietly prompt their client and hand them evidence, as needed.
  • Referral: Refer clients to other social service providers, legal aid providers, or the private
      Bar, as needed.

Benefit for Clients:
The Problem. Utah law provides victims of crime with the ability to obtain legal protection from
their perpetrator when domestic violence, sexual violence, dating violence, stalking, or child abuse
has been committed. Requesting and obtaining the correct order can be difficult for victims, as
they try to determine which order to apply for, what evidence may be needed, and how to present
their case to the court. The legal system is foreign and intimidating to many victims, and the
                                                               Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                           Description of Services
difficulty in navigating the system is compounded by the emotional, housing, employment, and
relational instability that results from being in and leaving an abusive relationship. We have heard
from many victim advocates that some victims do not seek legal protection they are eligible for
because they are too overwhelmed with or intimidated by the legal system. Victims are not
knowledgeable about court processes or standards, and sometimes incorrectly assume that the
system is stacked against them. They also have significant fear over facing their abuser in court—
being physically near their abuser, explaining the abuse, and hearing their abuser deny what
occurred.

Current Access to Services. Victims can seek assistance from both Utah Legal Services and Legal
Aid Society of Salt Lake, depending on where the case needs to be filed. However, these
organizations do not have the capacity to assist every victim. Sometimes victims who are turned
away from these organizations incorrectly believe that they’ve been turned away because they
don’t have a case. Timpanogos Legal Center has implemented the Certified Advocate Partners
Program, which we are seeking to support, and victims can receive services from these trained
advocates. Victims have had overwhelmingly positive feedback about the services they receive
from their Certified Advocate / Domestic Violence CJA. Despite all these programs, there is still
a need for more CJAs throughout the state to adequately serve all the victims of crime seeking
protection.

Role of Victim Advocates. Many victims receive supportive social services from victim advocates,
who are employed by domestic violence services providers and law enforcement agencies. It is
common for these advocates to attend protective order hearings and become very familiar with the
protective order process and how the local judiciary runs hearings. This experience, combined with
a well-meaning desire to assist victims in any way they can, often leads to victim advocates
attempting to provide legal advice to clients. However, they are untrained and too often provide
incorrect information and over-promise on potential outcomes. This leads to clients applying for
incorrect orders, not correctly preparing for hearings, or becoming discouraged and disillusioned
with the justice system. However, Timpanogos Legal Center has found in their implementation of
the Certified Advocate Partners Program that, with proper training, victim advocates are incredibly
effective in providing accurate, timely legal services to victims. These advocates are eager to
provide additional services.

Domestic Violence CJA Interventions. When a victim of abuse or stalking presents at a
community-based organization for support services, Domestic Violence CJAs can screen their case
and determine if they may be eligible for a civil protective order or civil stalking injunction. If they
potentially qualify for an order, they can have a comprehensive conversation with the client about
the benefits and requirements of obtaining an order and advise the client on what the best course
of action would be in their specific situation. They will be able to evaluate the evidence of abuse
for relevance and admissibility, and use that to make determinations around eligibility, especially
with regards to civil stalking injunctions. They are trained to take the information and evidence
provided by the client and write persuasive requests for protective orders and stalking injunctions,
using legal writing strategies. If the client receives an ex parte order and does not secure
representation for the hearing, the CJA can help them prepare legal arguments for their hearing
and explain what to expect procedurally. The CJA can also attend the hearing and sit at counsel’s
                                                              Community Justice Advocates of Utah
                                                                          Description of Services
table, providing quiet promptings to the client as needed, but will not address the Court or the
opposing party. CJAs also receive training on advising a client on modifications, extensions, and
dismissals, including the ability to complete the court-approved forms.

Summarized Benefits. When victims receive services from Domestic Violence CJAs, they will be
able to clearly understand the likelihood of receiving a civil protective order or stalking injunction
and receive assistance with the process of requesting an order, from drafting through to the hearing.
This will reduce the number of victims who are overwhelmed by the process and don’t request an
order they qualify for, dismiss an order prior to the hearing, or don’t show up to the hearing. It will
increase the number of victims who request an order they qualify for and who come prepared to
their hearing. Victims will better understand the overall process and be able to make informed
decisions about their safety and the safety of their minor children. Victims who secure an order
will benefit from having legal protections in place as they work to build independence and stability,
and peace of mind that they can have the assistance of law enforcement or the civil courts to
enforce that protection and peace.
