                  OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                  An Office of the Utah Supreme Court




     Amended Sandbox Authorization
               Packet
                    Elysium Holdings
                         September 21, 2022


Contents

1. Utah Supreme Court Amended Order for Authorization to Practice Law

2. Innovation Office Recommendation to the Court
Document 1
                 In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                                   ----oo0oo----

                In re: Application of Elysium Holdings LLC

                                          ---


       AMENDED ORDER FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW

Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted authority to
regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order 15, the Utah
Supreme Court orders that Elysium Holdings LLC and their subsidiaries Pearson Butler
and Elysium Legal are authorized to practice law within the regulatory sandbox and
subject to the restrictions outlined below.

The Court has reviewed the original recommendation of the Office of Legal
Services Innovation (“Innovation Office”) dated February 4, 2021, and the
amended recommendation, dated September 21, 2022, for Elysium Holdings LLC
(“Elysium Holdings”) to be authorized to practice law.

Elysium Holdings, a multi-professional services entity, is owned by lawyers and
nonlawyers. Its subsidiaries include Pearson Butler, a Utah-based law firm, and
Elysium Legal, which will be offering legal services through Alternative Legal
Providers (“ALPs”). The other subsidiaries include a financial services firm and a
registered investment advisor (RIA) firm. Pearson Butler’s attorneys, who work
closely together with its ALP staff, will identify those staff members, including
LLPs, who, in the attorneys’ professional judgment, are competent to offer legal
practice services through Elysium Legal.

The Innovation Office has assessed the risk of harm to Elysium Holdings’
subsidiaries’ targeted consumers relative to the risk of harm they currently face
and has determined that the risk of harm presented by Elysium Holdings’
services is Moderate.

In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate the
practice of law in Utah and in keeping with the tenets of Standing Order 15, the
Court now orders as follows:
               1. Elysium Holdings and its subsidiaries are authorized to offer legal
                  services through the following methods:
                     a. Alternative Business Structure
                          i. Lawyers employed or managed by nonlawyers
                         ii. Lawyers sharing profits with nonlawyers
                        iii. Nonlawyer ownership
                     b. ALP with lawyer involvement as follows:
                          i. ALPs offering:
                                1. Legal information;
                                2. Legal process assistance (e.g. providing general
                                   information about rules, procedures, and practices);
                                3. Legal advice to assist consumers with form completion
                                   and in administrative hearings as permitted by the
                                   relevant forum1 (e.g. uncontested probate document
                                   preparation; EEOC process including appearing in
                                   administrative hearings; unemployment insurance
                                   appeals before DWS; uncontested custody and child
                                   support documents, uncontested divorce mediation
                                   documents).
                         ii. Lawyer involvement including:
                                1. ALPs approved and supervised by practice group
                                   heads;
                                2. Training, job-shadowing, and CLE based on the
                                   specific practice area;
                                3. Develop, and train ALPs on, criteria to guide
                                   identification of those situations in which an attorney
                                   must be brought into the service;
                                4. Conduct random monthly audits of intakes and
                                   services performed by nonlawyer practitioners.

               2. Elysium Holdings, through its subsidiaries Pearson Butler and Elysium
                  Legal, is authorized to provide legal services across the following legal
                  service areas:
1
 This authorization is limited in its reach by the scope of authorization for nonlawyer practice and/or
representation by the relevant forum. In other words, in those administrative fora in which nonlawyer
representation is permitted, Pearson Butler’s nonlawyer practitioners remain governed by the rules and
requirements of those fora. Nonlawyers are permitted to appear on behalf of litigants before the EEOC and before
the Department of Workforce Services. Nothing in this recommendation authorizes nonlawyer practitioners to
appear in venues where they are barred by that venue's rules and this authorization does not permit nonlawyer
practitioners to appeal before the Utah Labor Commission.

                                                        1
                       a. Accident / Injury
                       b. Adult Care
                       c. Business
                       d. Consumer Financial Issues
                       e. Criminal
                       f. Discrimination
                       g. Domestic Violence
                       h. Employment
                       i. End of Life Planning
                       j. Healthcare
                       k. Immigration
                       l. Marriage and Family
                       m. Native American / Tribal Issues
                       n. Public Benefits
                       o. Real Estate

                3. Utah lawyers owning, partnering with, or employed by Pearson Butler
                   and/or Elysium Legal remain subject to the Utah Rules of Professional
                   Conduct. However, the Court hereby grants the following waivers:
                     a. Lawyer owners of the holding company Elysium Holdings will
                        not, by virtue of their ownership interest in the non-legal
                        subsidiaries only, trigger application of Rules 1.7 through 1.10 of
                        the Rules of Professional Conduct for consumers served by non-
                        legal subsidiaries.2
                     b. Payment of bonuses or compensation to lawyers owning or
                        employed by Pearson Butler or Elysium Legal by nonlawyer
                        owners or employees of other entities owned by Elysium
                        Holdings will not violate Rule 1.8(f).
                     c. The application of Rule 5.7 is waived as to those lawyer owners
                        and employees of Pearson Butler and Elysium Legal with respect
                        to the ancillary services provided by entities owned by Elysium
                        Holdings.
                     d. To the extent that Elysium Holdings’ business model could be
                        found to implicate Utah Rule of Professional Conduct 5.3, the
                        Court waives application of that rule as to lawyers practicing as
                        employees of Pearson Butler or Elysium Legal.
2
  In the event that one of Pearson’s sister entities or the holding company are the subject of litigation by a current or
former customer of those entities and/or Pearson, this waiver does not obviate Pearson’s responsibility under
Rules 1.7 through 1.10.

                                                            2
      4. Elysium Holdings shall conform to the Moderate Innovation reporting
         requirements imposed by the Innovation Office. Initially, Pearson will
         be reporting as an ABS, while Elysium Legal will be reporting on ALP
         services. However, both entities are authorized to provide ALP
         services. Pearson will notify the Office when/if it launches ALP
         services.

      5. Elysium Holdings and its subsidiaries will prominently display the
         following disclosure requirements:
            a. Innovation Office Badge
            b. Nonlawyer ownership disclosure
            c. Nonlawyer provider disclosure

If Elysium Holdings wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must
submit any such change to the Innovation Office for further assessment. The
Innovation Office will assess the proposed change and may permit the change if
it deems the change does not materially increase the risks to consumers. If the
Innovation Office finds a material increase in risk, then it will present the issue to
the Court for further consideration.

This authorization is granted for the duration of the existence of the Sandbox, or
until exit and permanent licensure at the discretion of the Court. Authorization is
subject to Elysium Holdings’ and its subsidiaries’ compliance with the conditions
and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office Manual and the Innovation
Office Recommendation to the Court and to a verification by the Innovation
Office that the company’s services are not causing material harm to consumers.


DATED this 21st day of September, 2022.



                                                   ______________________________
                                                  Matthew B. Durrant
                                                  Chief Justice




                                           3
Document 2
                         OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                         An Office of the Utah Supreme Court




   Amended Recommendation to the Court
      App No. 0028 - Elysium Holdings (previously
                Pearson Butler PLLC)

                               September 21, 2022


Contents
Executive Summary                                              1

Innovation Assessment                                          2

Sandbox Recommendation                                         2
                                     Executive Summary
            Recommendation: Authorize


                     Applicant: Elysium Holdings LLC


     Proposed Model/Service: Elysium Holdings, a multi-professional services entity, is owned
                                   by lawyers and nonlawyers. Its subsidiaries include Pearson
                                   Butler, a Utah-based law firm, and Elysium Legal, which will be
                                   offering legal services through Alternative Legal Providers
                                   (“ALPs”). The other subsidiaries include a financial services firm
                                   and a registered investment advisor (RIA) firm. Pearson Butler’s
                                   attorneys, who work closely together with its ALP staff, will
                                   identify those staff members, including LLPs, who, in the
                                   attorneys’ professional judgment, are competent to offer legal
                                   practice services through Elysium Legal.


     Target Consumer Market Lower to upper middle class consumers; small businesses.

           Sandbox Qualifiers: This business model/service qualifies for the Sandbox because it would
                               feature the following characteristics:
                                   ● Lawyers employed or managed by nonlawyer
                                   ● Nonlawyer ownership
                                   ● Profit sharing with nonlawyers
                                   ● ALP with lawyer involvement


         Regulatory Objective The proposed legal service model has the potential to increase
                    Qualifier:1 efficiency and access to services through a holistic model of service,
                                incorporating legal services alongside investment and other financial
                                services. It also has the potential to make these services accessible to
                                individuals and small businesses with lower capital resources through
                                the nonlawyer service tier.

                Utah Qualifier: Adapted for Utah requirements

    Implementation Qualifier: Proposed model ready for implementation.




1
 Regulatory Objective: To ensure consumers have access to a well-developed, high-quality, innovative, affordable,
and competitive market for legal services. (Standing Order No. 15)

                                                       1
                                    Innovation Assessment

             Target Market: Individuals and small businesses.


      General Assessment: Moderate Innovation

                               As with any ABS there are common risks regarding:
             Specific Risks:      1. Confidentiality
                                  2. Non-lawyer oversight of services
                                  3. Corporate interest in protecting profit
                                  4. ALP competency and quality assurance

                               Elysium has appropriately addressed these concerns



                           Sandbox Recommendation
We recommend the Court authorize Elysium Holdings. to practice law in the state of Utah, subject to
such requirements as the Innovation Office may impose.


      Term of             The Innovation Office recommends that the authority be for the duration of
      authorization       the existence of the Sandbox, or until exit and permanent licensure at the
                          discretion of the Court. Authorization is subject to Elysium Holdings’
                          compliance with the conditions and requirements set forth in the Innovation
                          Office Manual and the Innovation Office Recommendation to the Court and
                          to a verification by the Innovation Office that the company’s services are not
                          causing material harm to consumers.


                               1.   Lawyers employed or managed by nonlawyer
      Recommended              2.   Nonlawyer ownership
      Legal Service
                               3.   Profit sharing with nonlawyer
      Models
                               4.   ALP with lawyer involvement
                                        a. ALPs may offer:
                                                i.  Legal Information
                                               ii.  Legal process assistance
                                              iii.  Legal advice with form completion
                                              iv.   Preparing uncontested divorce paperwork
                                               v.   Assisting consumers with small claims paperwork
                                              vi.   Filling out Chapter 7 bankruptcy forms



                                                     2
                                             vii.    Wage claims
                                             viii.   Disability
                                              ix.    Immigration
                                               x.    Debt settlement
                                              xi.    Collections
                                             xii.    Form-based estate planning;
                                             xiii.   Uncontested probate document preparation;
                                             xiv.    The EEOC process, including appearing in
                                                     administrative hearings;2
                                              xv.    Unemployment hearings;
                                             xvi.    Family law document preparation including:
                                                     uncontested custody and child support documents,
                                                     uncontested divorce mediation documents, assisting
                                                     with OCAP paperwork etc., preparing other
                                                     documents for pro se litigants, including stipulations
                                                     etc.

                                 2. Lawyer involvement:
                                       a. ALP supervision by the head of the practice group with which
                                           they work.
                                       b. Training, job-shadowing, and CLE based on the specific
                                           practice area.
                                       c. Develop criteria to guide identification of those situations in
                                           which an attorney must be brought into the service and
                                           training based on those criteria.
                                       d. Conduct random monthly audits of intakes and services
                                           performed by nonlawyer practitioners.


       Legal service         None
       models not
       recommended

       Recommended      The entity is authorized across the following consumer service areas:
       consumer service    1. Accident / Injury
       areas               2. Adult Care
                           3. Business
                           4. Consumer Financial Issues
                           5. Criminal
                           6. Discrimination


2
 This authorization for nonlawyer practitioners is limited by the rules and practices applicable to the relevant
venues. Nonlawyers are permitted to appear on behalf of litigants before the EEOC and in unemployment
proceedings. Nothing in this Order authorizes nonlawyer practitioners to appear in venues where they are barred
by that venue's rules.

                                                        3
                 7. Domestic Violence
                 8. Employment
                 9. End of Life Planning
                 10. Healthcare
                 11. Immigration
                 12. Marriage and Family
                 13. Native American / Tribal Issues
                 14. Public Benefits
                 15. Real Estate

              ALPS are limited to the services listed in their service model
              recommendation.

Recommended   Rules 1.7 - 1.10 (the conflicts and imputation of conflicts rules)
waivers
              Elysium seeks waivers as to the lawyer owners and employees of the entity
              to ensure that the lawyer owners are not automatically conflicted out of
              providing legal services to clients by virtue of the fact that the clients were
              served by the sister companies and to ensure that the sister companies’
              engagements with firm clients are not considered business transactions.

              The Innovation Office recommends the following language:

              Utah lawyers owning, partnering with, or employed by Elysium
              Holdings and its subsidiaries remain subject to the Utah Rules of
              Professional Conduct. However, the Court hereby finds that for the
              duration of its authorization by this Order, the lawyer owners of the
              holding company Elysium will not, by virtue of their ownership
              interest in the non-legal subsidiaries only, trigger application of
              Rules 1.7 through 1.10 of the Rules of Professional Conduct for
              consumers served by non-legal subsidiaries.


              Rule 1.8 (f) (forbidding a lawyer to accept compensation from one
              other than the client unless there is informed consent.

              Elysium seeks the waiver to permit entity lawyers to accept referral
              fees from nonlawyers working with the other entities owned by the
              holding company.

              The Innovation Office recommends the following waiver language:

              Utah lawyers owning, partnering with, or employed by Elysium
              Holdings or its subsidiaries remain subject to the Utah Rules of
              Professional Conduct. However, the Court hereby authorizes
              payment of bonuses or compensation to lawyers owning or

                                        4
                 employed by Elysium by nonlawyer owners or employees of other
                 entities owned by Elysium LLC will not violate Rule 1.8(f).


                 Rule 5.7 (responsibilities regarding law-related services).

                 Elysium recognizes the need to develop clear processes and
                 communications to facilitate the offering of legal, investment, and
                 retirement services together while ensuring client confidentiality and
                 privilege protections remain intact but seeks the flexibility to
                 develop those processes and procedures without being subject to
                 Rule 5.7.

                 The Innovation Office recommends the following waiver language:

                 Utah lawyers owning, partnering with, or employed by Elysium
                 Holdings remain subject to the Utah Rules of Professional Conduct.
                 However, the Court hereby waives application of Rule 5.7 as to those
                 lawyer owners and employees of Elysium with respect to the ancillary
                 services provided by other entities owned by Elysium LLC.


                 Rule 5.3 (responsibilities regarding nonlawyer assistance)

                 The Office recommends this waiver with respect to Elysium’s ALPs.

                 The Office recommends the following language:

                 Utah lawyers partnering with Elysium Holdings remain otherwise
                 subject to the Utah Rules of Professional Conduct. However, to the
                 extent that Elysium’s business model could be found to implicate
                 Utah Rule of Professional Conduct 5.3, the Court waives application
                 of that rule as to lawyers practicing as employees of Elysium
                 Holdings and its subsidiaries.


Recommended      Standardized disclosure statements on website and in mobile applications
qualitative      (see Manual):
compliance           1. Badge
requirements
                     2. Nonlawyer Ownership Disclosure Statement
                     3. Nonlawyer service provider disclosure statement
                     4. Rule 5.4 fee sharing disclosures


Recommended      Moderate Innovation data reporting requirements (see Manual)
data reporting
requirements


                                           5
