                  OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                  An Office of the Utah Supreme Court




     Amended Sandbox Authorization
               Packet
       LegaLogic, Inc., d/b/a LawGeex
                            August 15, 2022


Contents

1. Utah Supreme Court Amended Order for Authorization to Practice Law

2. Innovation Office Recommendation to the Court
Document 1
             In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                               ----oo0oo----

       In re: Application of LegaLogic, Inc., DBA LawGeex

                                     ---


   AMENDED ORDER FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW

Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted
authority to regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing
Order 15, the Utah Supreme Court orders that LegaLogic, Inc., d/b/a LawGeex
(“LawGeex”) is authorized to practice law within the regulatory sandbox and
subject to the restrictions outlined below.

The Court has reviewed the recommendation of the Office of Legal
Services Innovation (“Innovation Office”) dated April 22, 2021, for
LawGeex to be authorized to practice law.

LawGeex is an established legal tech company headquartered in Israel
with offices in New York and Utah. The company’s product is a software
program that automates contract review and management using artificial
intelligence. The software codifies corporate contract policies and enables
much of the routine legal decision-making process to take place via the
software tool. The platform supports much of the negotiation of many
types of routine corporate contracts (e.g. nondisclosure agreements,
master service agreements) and also facilitates the management of an
entity's contracts through the contract lifecycle. Under the current rules,
the company is limited to basic application of a client’s defined legal
policies in contract negotiation and management; it is not permitted to
make independent legal assessments or engage in contract negotiation
itself.

LawGeex proposes entering into the Sandbox as a legal technology
company with lawyer employees providing legal services to its current
and future clients. In the Sandbox, LawGeex’s software and attorneys
would be able to essentially provide an outsourced contracts negotiation


                                     1
and execution team for its clients, providing legal advice and negotiation.
In March 2020, the company opened a Legal Quality Assurance hub in
Lehi, Utah. The proposed new services would be run through this hub
using the staff of Utah lawyers.

The Innovation Office has assessed the risk of harm to LawGeex’s targeted
consumers relative to the risk of harm they currently face and has
determined that the risk of harm presented by LawGeex’s services is
Moderate.

In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate
the practice of law in Utah and in keeping with the tenets of Standing
Order 15, the Court now orders as follows:

 1. LawGeex is authorized to offer legal services through the following
    methods:
     a. Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer
     b. Nonlawyer ownership
     c. Lawyers sharing profits with nonlawyers
     d. Software provider with lawyer involvement

 2. LawGeex is authorized to provide legal services across the following
    legal service areas only:
      a. Business
      b. Healthcare

 3. LawGeex shall conform to the Moderate innovation reporting
    requirements imposed by the Innovation Office.

 4. LawGeex will prominently display the following disclosure
    requirements:
      a. Innovation Office Badge
      b. Nonlawyer provider disclosure
      c. Nonlawyer ownership disclosure

If LawGeex wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must
submit any such change to the Innovation Office for further assessment.
The Innovation Office will assess the proposed change and may permit
the change if it deems the change does not materially increase the risks to




                                     2
consumers. If the Innovation Office finds a material increase in risk then it
will present the issue to the Court for further consideration.

This authorization is granted for the duration of the existence of the
Sandbox, or until exit and permanent licensure at the discretion of the
Court. Authorization is subject to LawGeex’s compliance with the
conditions and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office Manual
and the Innovation Office Recommendation to the Court and to a
verification by the Innovation Office that the company’s services are not
causing material harm to consumers.


DATED this 16th day of August, 2022.



                                          ______________________________
                                                 Matthew B. Durrant
                                                 Chief Justice




                                      3
Document 2
                    OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                         An Office of the Utah Supreme Court


            RECOMMENDATION TO THE COURT
   APP NO. 0041 - LEGALOGIC, INC., D/B/A LAWGEEX

                                  APRIL 22, 2021


CONTENTS
Executive Summary                                              1

Risk Assessment                                                2

Sandbox Recommendation                                         3
                                                                   Sandbox Recommendation – LawGeex


                                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
      Recommendation:      Authorize

              Applicant:   LegaLogic, Inc. d/b/a LawGeex (“LawGeex”)
                           LawGeex is an established legal tech company headquartered in
Proposed Model/Service:    Israel with offices in New York and Utah. The company’s product is a
                           software program that automates contract review and management
                           using artificial intelligence. The software codifies corporate contract
                           policies and enables much of the routine legal decision-making
                           process to take place via the software tool. The platform supports
                           much of the negotiation of many types of routine corporate contracts
                           (e.g. nondisclosure agreements, master service agreements) and also
                           facilitates the management of an entity's contracts through the
                           contract lifecycle. Under the current rules, the company is limited to
                           basic application of a client’s defined legal policies in contract
                           negotiation and management; it is not permitted to make
                           independent legal assessments or engage in contract negotiation
                           itself.

                           LawGeex proposes entering into the Sandbox as a legal technology
                           company with lawyer employees providing legal practice services to
                           its current and future clients. In the Sandbox, LawGeex’s software and
                           attorneys would be able to essentially provide an outsourced
                           contracts negotiation and execution team for its clients, providing
                           legal advice and negotiation. In March 2020, the company opened a
                           Legal Quality Assurance hub in Lehi, Utah. The proposed new
                           services would be run through this hub using the staff of Utah lawyers.

                           The proposed service model is:
                              ● Lawyers employed or managed by nonlawyers
                              ● Nonlawyer ownership (50% or over)
                              ● Software provider with lawyer involvement

                           The proposed consumer service area is:
                              ● Business
                              ● Healthcare

                           N/A
        Waivers Sought

Target Consumer Market     Corporations, small businesses, nonprofits, and public sector
                           entities.

     Sandbox Qualifiers:   This business model/service qualifies for the Sandbox because it
                           would feature the following characteristics:
                               ● Lawyers employed or managed by nonlawyers
                               ● Nonlawyer ownership (50% or over)

                                                 1
                                                                          Sandbox Recommendation – LawGeex

                                    ●   Software provision of legal advice


        Regulatory Objective     This proposal has the potential to increase small business, nonprofit,
                   Qualifier:1   and public sector access to legal services related to the drafting,
                                 negotiation, execution, and management of contracts. The use of
                                 technology increases the potential for increased efficiency and lower
                                 cost.

              Utah Qualifier:    Adapted for Utah requirements; using Utah-licensed lawyers.

    Implementation Qualifier:    Ready for immediate implementation.



                                           RISK ASSESSMENT
               Target Market: Corporations seeking increased efficiency and decreased cost for legal
                              services related to contracts; small businesses, nonprofits, and public
                              entities without access to in house or external lawyers.

        General Assessment: MODERATE RISK

               Specific Risks:   1. Nonlawyer ownership
                                 2. User communications




                                   SANDBOX RECOMMENDATION

We recommend the Court authorize LawGeex to practice law in the state of Utah, subject to such
requirements as the Innovation Office may impose.

                                   Scope of Recommended Authorization

           Term of authorization The Innovation Office recommends that the authority be granted for
                                 an initial period of 24 months from the date of service launch with the
                                 possibility of extension or permanent authorization. Any such
                                 extension or permanent authorization would be subject to the
                                 applicant complying with the conditions and requirements set forth
                                 below and also to LawGeex has a record of compliance with all
                                 requirements and the company’s services are not causing harm to
                                 consumers.


    Recommended legal service           1. Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer


1
 Regulatory Objective: To ensure consumers have access to a well-developed, high-quality, innovative,
affordable, and competitive market for legal services. (Standing Order No. 15)
                                                       2
                                                               Sandbox Recommendation – LawGeex

                 models

                                 2. Nonlawyer ownership (50% or more)

                                 3. Software provider with lawyer involvement

 Legal service models not   N/A
           recommended

Recommended consumer        1.    Business
         service areas
                            2. Healthcare


  Recommended waivers N/A

Recommended qualitative Standardized disclosure statements on website and in mobile
 compliance requirements applications (see Manual):
                          1. Badge
                          2. Nonlawyer ownership disclosures


     Recommended data
                         MODERATE risk data reporting requirements (see Manual)
  reporting requirements




                                               3
Published September 16, 2020




                         OFFICE OF LEGAL SERVICES INNOVATION
                                     An Office of the Utah Supreme Court


                           SANDBOX PARTICIPANT APPLICATION
 The Sandbox is for innovative services models that cannot otherwise be offered under the present Rules of Professional
 Conduct or are considered the unauthorized practice of law. There are a few qualifications to this mandate:
      1. The Sandbox is for all business and service models falling under Utah Rule of Professional Conduct 5.4
          and Utah Supreme Court Standing Order No. 15.
      2. Suspended or disbarred lawyers are barred from holding an ownership interest of greater than 10% in any
          Sandbox entity.
      3. The Sandbox is not meant to be a mechanism by which out-of-state lawyers can practice in Utah without
          otherwise completing the requirements imposed by the Utah State Bar.
      4. The Sandbox does not and cannot impact requirements imposed by other applicable Utah or federal laws,
          the laws or requirements imposed by other jurisdictions, or the requirements imposed by other regulatory
          bodies. Authorization to practice law in Utah through the Sandbox does not release any entity or individual
          therein from conforming to all other applicable laws and regulations.
      5. As made clear in Rule 5.4 and Standing Order No. 15, lawyers working with or in entities participating in the
          Sandbox are required to maintain their duties under the Rules of Professional Conduct.
 Your application will be made publicly available. You will have the opportunity to make a claim of business
 confidentiality for specific information that would qualify for protection under GRAMA Section 63G-2-305. Making false
 or materially misleading statements in this application is a basis for loss of authorization to practice within the Sandbox.
 Other criminal and civil sanctions may also apply.
 Should your answers to any of the application questions change, you are responsible for updating the
 information with the Innovation Office. Failure to promptly update information will be considered relevant to your
 regulatory status.
 If you have any questions, please contact the Innovation Office at sandbox@utcourts.gov.
                                           1.     PROPOSED SERVICES
1.1. Describe your proposed legal services offering in detail.
Please include (i) who provides the legal services, (ii) how consumers will access/receive these services, and (iii)
what your service will do for your customers.

LawGeex is a leading legal technology company which is transforming businesses worldwide and empowering legal
teams to accelerate the contract review process so they can close more deals faster, focus on more strategic work
and increase internal quality and accuracy.

LawGeex, with offices in New York, Utah and Tel-Aviv, Israel and over 100 employees worldwide, is the leader in
Contract Review Automation (CRA) and provides solutions that automatically review commercial contracts during
the negotiation process. LawGeex effectively codifies the client’s legal decision making process against a set of
policies and applies them to the client’s day-to-day routine contracts. This is made possible through a powerful
combination of our patented Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology and our dedicated team of legal experts who
supervise the AI results. Together, they deliver benefits that can be measured in accuracy (equal or better to an
experienced commercial lawyer), speed and cost-effectiveness.

Below are some significant data points that demonstrate our accuracy and leadership in this space:
     ● LawGeex was featured on HBO’s “The Future of Work” series in an AI vs. Lawyer rematch officiated by
         Vice News. The results: LawGeex outperformed the human lawyer. The attorney took over an hour to
         review the two documents which he did with 85% and 83% accuracy, respectively. LawGeex AI achieved
         95% accuracy on both contracts.
     ● In a landmark study, “AI vs Lawyers: The Ultimate Showdown,” 20 experienced US lawyers took on
         LawGeex AI in reviewing 5 NDAs. LawGeex AI achieved an accuracy level of 94% compared to an
         average accuracy of 85% across humans. It took the attorneys an average of 92 minutes, while it took
         LawGeex AI 26 seconds. This study was conducted in 2018, demonstrating that even then, our AI alone
         was better than an experienced human lawyer in certain routine use cases.

LawGeex supports the full negotiation of everyday legal contracts such as Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs),
Master Services Agreements (MSAs), Licensing Agreements, Sales Agreements, Product Supply Agreements,
Software as a Service (SaaS) Agreements, Request For Proposals (RFPs), Clinical Trial Agreements (CTAs) and
Data Processing Agreements (DPAs). We support clients regardless of industry or size, whether they are on the sell
side or buy side, and whether they use 1st party (i.e., their own template) or 3rd party agreements. We have clients
across many industries, including Technology, Pharmaceuticals, Financial Services & Insurance, Education, Private
Equity, Manufacturing, Professional Services and more.

LawGeex was recently granted a pioneering patent on our contextual AI engine for contract analysis. This
achievement marks an important milestone for us as the pioneer and leader in Contract Review Automation. At the
core of LawGeex’s tech stack is a Contextual AI-engine that understands not just the language of the contract, but
the intent and objectives of the parties to it. Our patent covers a proprietary algorithmic component in LawGeex’s
solution that performs contextual analysis of contracts. This is achieved through a deep understanding of the unique
legal language which allows the LawGeex solution to capture and address nuances in contracts that no other tool
can, thereby eliminating the need to trade off the quality, speed, and costs of contract review.

In March 2020, LawGeex opened a US Legal Quality Assurance (LQA) hub in Lehi, Utah. Currently the hub is
staffed with 11 lawyers including 7 Utah licensed attorneys in order to drive further support of our global business.
LawGeex is maintaining a constant recruiting process in Utah and our Lehi legal team is forecasted to double in size
in 2021. In addition, we are working in partnership with the S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah to
promote legal positions and have successfully turned 1 internship so far into full-time employment post-graduation.
The remaining LQA team is located in Berkeley, California and in Tel Aviv, Israel. We continue to see this team grow
and play a pivotal role in shaping the future of our product and impact on our client’s satisfaction.

When reviewing contracts, unlike other technology solutions that simply identify issues or give a risk rating, we
actually fix any legal issues found. Here is a basic overview of how our solution works in three steps:
   1. The client sends a contract via email for LawGeex to review.
   2. The LawGeex AI first and then the LQA team reviews and redlines the contract based on the client's
     pre-defined legal policies.
  3. The LawGeex system sends a redlined contract straight into the client’s inbox.

LawGeex provides better quality, faster turnaround times, and is more cost effective than other alternatives. In
essence, whether a small business or a large corporation, LawGeex provides the clients with a solution by
becoming an extension of the client’s legal team that they can truly delegate contract work to.

LawGeex’s AI engine is Pretrained, Self-Learning, and Supervised:
  ● Pre-trained. LawGeex AI has already been fed with tens of thousands of contracts and can not only recognize but
     also understand legal concepts. Similar to when a client hires an experienced contract attorney – they don’t need to
     teach them what a non-compete or an exclusivity clause is – they immediately recognize it. They just need to know
     what the client’s positions are. LawGeex follows a similar process.

  ●    Self learning. Our AI continues to learn through our robust network. With every contract our AI sees, new patterns
       are recognized and our algorithms make new connections.

  ●    Supervised. In addition to our mature and robustly trained AI technology, we have our LQA team of senior,
       highly-qualified commercial attorneys whose role in essence is to ensure accuracy in the AI’s output and confirm or
       correct any decisions it has made. For LawGeex, it’s worth having this work done by senior level attorneys at no
       additional charge; not only does it empower clients to have greater confidence in their work product by knowing
       LawGeex ensures accuracy, it is also the framework of how we continuously improve and teach our AI. What is
       supervised today is pre-trained tomorrow.

By leveraging LawGeex, our clients benefit from the following:
  ● Increased deal velocity
  ● Reduction of legal costs
  ● Better allocation of legal resources (free up time for more strategic legal work)
  ● Remove bottlenecks in reviewing first and third party contracts
  ● Ensure consistency and compliance across teams and organizations
  ● Gain data-driven visibility through analytics and insights to accelerate future deals
  ● Support scale and business speed while increasing quality and consistency

Currently, LawGeex does not provide legal advice but is constricted to the predefined legal policy of the client which
is created together with the client during the set up phase. This means that the contract review work is completely
based on the client’s playbook and reflects only any guidelines and language that was provided in advance by the
client as part of the playbook creation. In addition, the client receives the redlined contract from LawGeex and is the
one responsible for any negotiation with the counterparty.

LawGeex’s proposed offering under the Sandbox license:
LawGeex’s ability to practice law under the Sandbox will provide its clients additional value while maintaining our
current advantages (ie: cost, speed, accuracy).

If accepted to the Sandbox, LawGeex will be able to:

  1. Work hand-in-hand with our clients to build playbooks and create legal policies that reflect the clients’ legal
     standard position, while providing data driven insights of success factors from its database. By doing so, we
     will be able to develop and optimize our clients’ playbooks/legal policies to expedite successful negotiations.

  2. Instead of clients needing to make a final review of an agreement, they will be able to instruct LawGeex to
     make these legal judgment calls on their behalf prior to sending the contract to the counterparty and allowing
     LawGeex to actually take the negotiation all the way to the point of the contract being signed.

The new proposed services will enable LawGeex to take an important “extra mile” for its clients: leverage our
internal expert team of commercial lawyers (which includes and is overseen by Utah licensed attorneys) and provide
additional value to both small businesses who do not have legal resources in-house, and large corporations, through
strategic legal advice to create and/or improve the legal policies of their playbooks, and provide end-to-end
How consumers will access/receive these services:
From the first day a client signs with LawGeex, they are assigned to a dedicated Customer Success Manager (CSM)
who supports them during onboarding and throughout the engagement.

The heavy lifting (building/extracting/optimizing the client’s legal policy, and implementing it all into a LawGeex digital
playbook) of the onboarding process is managed by the LawGeex team (LQA) and does not require a significant
amount of the client’s time. We do our best to create and validate the legal playbook by leveraging materials
provided by the client, to help minimize the amount of hands-on work they need to provide.

With regards to submitting and receiving contracts, our goal is to make it as seamless as possible and enable our
clients to leverage our platform in the most simple way.

Once a client is onboarded and their playbook is ready to go live, the process is simple. The LawGeex platform can
integrate to any existing organization platform (CLM or CRM) such as Salesforce or Ariba, or the client can simply
use Outlook/Gmail and send the contract via email.

Once LawGeex finalizes the review process and the contract is ready, we send back a redlined Word document that
is ready to be sent to the counterparty.




What our service will do for our customers:
The proposed services will enable our clients to benefit directly from our innovative and award-winning contract
review automation software. LawGeex reduces risk, drives consistency and reduces legal costs which would
alternatively be spent on multiple external/ in-house legal counsel. LawGeex ensures our clients are driving
consistent legal approaches across all of their day-to-day routine contracts, improving the speed at which they close
deals and empowering them to drive better resource allocation of their teams.

Under the new offering:
  ● Our patented AI technology together with our experienced LQA team will enable the provision of data-driven
      recommendations to help clients make the best decisions when it comes to their legal approach.
  ● The combination of AI and Human Intelligence will act as a trusted advisor to drive end-to-end contract
      negotiations on behalf of the client.

1.2. Describe the entity business model you want authorized in the Sandbox, including the management
     structure which will oversee direct legal service providers.

As described in detail in this application, LawGeex is an AI software company (non-lawyer ownership) which
provides the services of every-day legal contracts review based on the client’s pre-defined legal policies, using
language provided by the customer.

Under the proposed business model in this application, LawGeex will provide its clients with strategic legal advice to
create and/or improve the legal policies of their playbooks, as well as end-to-end negotiation support and other
strategic legal advice.

The legal services will be overseen by our team of Utah licensed attorneys as well as by the management of the
Legal Operations department (including general management overseeing, training, quality control, client feedback,
analysis, processes etc.) as described in detail under Sections 2-4 below.
1.3. Why is your proposal eligible to enter the Sandbox?
Identify the specific model, service or product innovations that are not permitted under the traditional rules governing the
practice of law.

Traditional rules governing the practice of law do not permit non-lawyer ownership in an entity practicing law or providing
legal advice. As further described in this application. Our entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Legalogic Ltd., which is
vastly owned by individuals and VC funds who are not qualified lawyers.

In addition, the proposed services will be provided by technology as well as both Utah licensed lawyers and non-Utah
licensed lawyers (all oversighted by Utah licensed lawyers).


1.4. Describe your target consumer(s).
For example: single parents making <$50,000 in a custody dispute, first generation college students in a landlord-tenant
dispute; renters 40+ years planning for retirement; college educated entrepreneurs seeking legal advice in starting a
business.

Legal and business professionals and/or public sector units that review and negotiate contracts in companies or
organizations ranging in size from small businesses to large multinational enterprises. Legal and procurement
departments are a typical consumer as they deal with a large volume of repetitive contracts which LawGeex knows how
to automate. The typical consumer would deal with contracts primarily in English and will be looking to digitize their
contract review process.
1.5. Which service models are you seeking to use? Select all that apply.
    ❏    Lawyers employed or managed by a nonlawyer
    ❑    Less than 50% non lawyer ownership
    ✓    More than 50% non lawyer ownership
    ❑    Lawyers sharing legal fees or paying referral fees to nonlawyers
    ❑    Non Lawyer provider1 with lawyer involvement2
    ❑    Nonlawyer provider without lawyer involvement
    ✓    Software provider with lawyer involvement
    ❑    Software provider without lawyer involvement
    ✓    Other: Software provider with lawyer involvement - legal document completion



1.6. Which legal service categories are you seeking to offer?

    ❑   Accident/Injury                            ✓   Education                                  ❑    Housing - Rental
    ❑   Adult Care                                 ❑   Employment                                 ❑    Marriage and Family
    ✓   Business                                   ❑   End of Life Planning                       ❑    Military
    ❑   Criminal - Expungement ONLY                ❑   Financial Issues                           ❑    Native American + Tribal Issues
    ❑   Discrimination                             ❑   Immigration                                ❑    Public Benefits
    ❑   Domestic Violence                          ✓   Healthcare                                 ❑    Real Estate
                                                                                                  ❑    Traffic - civil actions / citations




1
 Provider means legal practitioner: a provider who or which is practicing law, including offering legal advice.
2
 Involvement denotes a range of activities, including guidance on initial development of forms, scripts, processes, software. It could
mean a lawyer does sample reviews of product/service performance. It could mean a lawyer is available to advise the nonlawyer
provider as needed - including via red flag trap doors in software.
                                           2. RISK ASSESSMENT
The Innovation Office must assess whether new legal service models cause consumers to get inappropriate or
otherwise flawed legal results, fail to exercise legal rights through ignorance or bad advice, or purchase an
unnecessary or inappropriate legal service.

2.1. Fully and candidly discuss the risks your customers might face if they use your proposed model,
     including each of the risks described above.

  1. Inaccurate or inappropriate legal result.
     The risk of a human error which can lead to inaccurate or inappropriate legal results is inherent in any legal
     service. LawGeex is able to mitigate this risk by using both advanced AI technology with a team of expert
     commercial lawyers. This combination will always be more accurate than AI or HI (human intelligence) alone. We
     believe that our service significantly reduces the risk compared to other contract review alternatives available to
     the clients.

  2. Failure to exercise legal rights through ignorance or bad advice.
     The risk of failure to exercise legal rights is less relevant to the commercial contract review sector in comparison
     to other legal sectors. As explained,we believe the combination of our AI + HI to be more accurate than AI or HI
     alone.

  3. Purchase of an unnecessary or inappropriate legal service.
     Such risk does not exist:
        ● In most cases the agreements would be reviewed as standard best practice by the client’s team or
             alternate solutions.
        ● Even if the client decides not to review such agreements at all (which is unlikely), such a decision
             involves risk that LawGeex wishes to eliminate/minimize at minimum cost. In any case, the service of
             reviewing contracts cannot be categorized as unnecessary or inappropriate.
                                 3.     BENEFITS TO UTAH CONSUMERS
The Innovation Office is assessing potential benefits of proposed offerings to the Utah legal market.

3.1. Describe how your model will provide higher quality, more cost effective, and more accessible legal
     services for your target consumers.

As many corporations and small businesses together with public sector units, are feeling the added pressure of reducing
costs and budgets, LawGeex is a perfect solution to enable these prospects to meet the budgetary needs and not
compromise on their legal risks.

Both small units/businesses who do not have legal resources in-house (including smaller “mom and pop” businesses) as
well as large corporations with large legal teams can benefit from delegating their contracting work to LawGeex. Clients
can recognize immediate relief, cost savings and higher deal velocity, without compromising accuracy.
●        Reduce legal costs by up to 90%. Experience gains in efficiency that can be measured in the bottom line.
●        Save 80% of time. Drive client impact beyond the legal function to the enterprise.
●        Immediate Time-to-Value. With no learning curve or software to install, realize immediate value.
●        Quality that scales. Unparalleled accuracy, speed, scalability.

Our patented technology provides a solution that seamlessly integrates with the software stack businesses are already
using (e.g. Outlook, Gmail, Salesforce, Etc) and requires no change-management effort. Based on our current and
proposed offering, we help clients ensure they have a consistent and accurate standard legal position applied to each and
every contract, more efficiently and more cost effective than any other option.

The proposed services will enable our clients to benefit directly from our patented and award-winning contract review
automation software. LawGeex reduces risk, drives consistency and reduces legal costs.

LawGeex’s presence in Utah’s legal services market empowers us to disrupt such a marketplace in a way that will benefit
Utah’s residents long-term, enabling and encouraging more accessible legal services, greater competition, lower prices
and a technology-forward approach to legal services by other players and vendors.
3.2. Does your proposal comply with applicable Utah legal requirements?
For example: staffed by UT licensed attorneys, built to complete state legal forms.

Yes. Our proposal fully complies with all applicable Utah legal requirements.




3.3. Identify which of your service models are ready to immediately implement.
The Office of Innovation is only authorized to consider proposals which are ready to begin offering legal services not
currently authorized in Utah at the time of authorization.

All of our service proposals are currently ready to be implemented.
                                   4.     CONFIRMATION OF ELIGIBILITY
 4.1. List all persons or entities who wholly or partially direct the management or policies of your proposed entity
      and/or the direct provision of legal services to consumers, whether through ownership of securities, by
      contract, or otherwise (“controlling persons”).

LawGeex’s Legal Operations department, who will be responsible for provision of legal services to consumers, is
managed by Advocate Amir Chernichovsky, VP of Legal Operations. Amir Chernichovsky reports to the company’s Chief
Operating Officer, Yuval Ben-Galim.

The Legal Operations department is based in both Israel and the USA. The Israeli operations are managed by Shani
Kreimer, ESQ who is based in Tel-Aviv (licensed in Israel and NY) and the USA operations are managed by Amber E. Bass,
ESQ. who is based in Lehi, Utah (licensed in Oklahoma).

The management of the team also includes the head of the QC department, the head of legal playbooks and onboarding
and the head of legal data and operations.
The individuals listed in this section (all besides the COO, Yuval Ben Galim, and Nicole Arbiv who is a CPA), are attorneys
with contract law experience licensed outside of Utah.




 4.2. List all persons or entities who will wholly or partially (greater than 10%) finance the business of your
      proposed entity (“financing persons”).

Legalogic Inc., incorporated in Delaware (DBA “LawGeex”), is a wholly owned subsidiary of Legalogic Ltd., an Israeli limited
liability company, which is funded by individuals and Venture Capitalists. No one individual holds more than 10% of the
parent company, either directly or indirectly.
The Venture Capitalists who hold more than 10% of the parent company are Corner Ventures (https://cornerventures.com/)
and Aleph VC (https://aleph.vc/).




 4.3. Please note that no financing person may be a disbarred or suspended lawyer. List all controlling
      persons who are disbarred or suspended lawyers.

Not applicable.




 4.4. List all controlling persons or financing persons of your proposed entity who have a felony criminal
      history.
Not applicable.
 4.5. List all persons who will be in a managerial role over the direct provision of legal services to
      consumers who are disbarred lawyers.

Not applicable.




 4.6. List all persons who will be in a managerial role over the direct provision of legal services to
      consumers who have a felony criminal history.



Not applicable.




 4.7. Please select the most accurate description: My proposed entity has a material corporate relationship
      and/or business partnership with:
            ❑ A disbarred or suspended lawyer
            ❑ An individual with a felony criminal history
            ✓ Neither a disbarred / suspended lawyer nor an individual with a felony criminal history

 4.8. Disclose any history of state or federal criminal (misdemeanor or felony) conviction, state or federal
      consent decree, or state or federal enforcement action resulting in sanctions (disgorgement, civil penalties,
      and/or injunction) for the entity and, if applicable, its parent and other affiliated companies.

Not applicable.
4.8. Disclose whether the entity, parent, and other affiliated companies are, to their knowledge, currently subject to
      a state or federal criminal investigation or state or federal enforcement action.

Not applicable.




I confirm that no financing persons listed in this application are disbarred or suspended lawyers.



Signature:



Printed Name: Noory Bechor



Title: CEO                        Date: March 18, 2021
                                 SELLING OF CONSUMER DATA DISCLOSURE
Please indicate whether your business model includes the sharing or selling of consumer data in any form to
third parties.
        Yes
    ✓ No




                                PUBLIC APPLICATION
Your application will be made publicly available. You will have the opportunity to make a claim of business
confidentiality for specific information that would qualify for protection under GRAMA Section 63G-2-305.
Making false or materially misleading statements in this application is a basis for loss of authorization to practice
within the Sandbox. Other criminal and civil sanctions may also apply.



   ✓ I understand.




Signature:



Printed Name: Noory Bechor



Title: CEO                              Date: March 18, 2021
