                           In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah


                                                ----oo0oo----


                        In re: Application of the Utah State University
                              Transforming Communities Institute

                                                        ---


        AMENDED ORDER FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW

    Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted authority to regulate
    the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order No. 15, the Utah Supreme Court
    orders that the Utah State University Transforming Communities Institute is authorized to
    practice law within the Utah legal regulatory sandbox and subject to the restrictions outlined
    below.


The Utah State University Transforming Communities Institute (“USU TCI”) is hereby
authorized to train, certify, and support helping professionals to provide free legal
services to underserved Utahns in the areas of debt collection and landlord/tenant (limited
to consumers).1 USU TCI will develop and provide curriculum, training, and certification
of the non-lawyer community justice advocates (“CJAs”). Additionally, USU TCI will
provide programmatic oversight as the umbrella entity responsible for oversight, data
collection, reporting, and supervision of the CJAs. Utah-licensed lawyers working and
partnering with USU TCI will provide malpractice insurance as necessary as well as
ongoing support and supervision of certified CJAs. As detailed below, the limited-scope
legal services will be provided by these trained and certified CJAs (nontraditional legal
providers).

Certified CJAs may provide the following limited-scope assistance in Utah:

           1. Legal process assistance;
           2. Form completion assistance;

           3. Legal advice;
           4. Negotiation on behalf of the consumer;
           5. Additionally, advocates may assist clients in court as outlined in rule 4-810 of
               the Utah Supreme Court Rules of Professional Practice.


1
  A “helping professional” is defined as “a person who has a college degree, has a license, holds a job or
volunteer position, and/or has experience in relevant fields of social services, health, or education, which may
include, but is not limited to, psychology, psychiatry, counseling, medicine, nursing, social work,
physical and occupational therapy, teaching, and education.” This definition does not include Utah-licensed
attorneys.
Consistent with activities generally permitted by nonlawyers, CJAs may also provide
legal information and offer referrals to legal and social services as needed.

Utah-licensed lawyers working and partnering with USU TCI remain otherwise subject to
the Utah Rules of Professional Conduct. However, to the extent that USU TCI’s service
model could be found to implicate Utah Rule of Professional Conduct 5.3, the Court waives
application of that rule.

USU TCI shall conform to the Moderate Innovation reporting requirements imposed by
the Office of Legal Services Innovation (the “Innovation Office”).

USU TCI will prominently display the required disclosure language to solicit complaints
or feedback.

This Authorization is granted for the duration of the existence of the Sandbox, or until
otherwise determined by the Court. Authorization is subject to USU TCI’s compliance
with the conditions and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office Manual and
verification that the entity’s services are not causing material harm to consumers. If USU
TCI wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must submit any such change to
the Innovation Office for further assessment.

This Authorization does not relieve USU TCI, its employees, or any associated lawyer
from compliance with applicable state and federal laws and any rules or regulations of
another state, government agency, or other governing body. USU TCI is responsible for
ensuring that it complies with the laws, rules, and regulations of any other affected
jurisdiction.


DATED this 3rd day of September 2026.




                                                 ______________________________
                                                 Jill M. Pohlman
                                                 Associate Chief Justice
Supplemental Responses
       Is TCI a separate entity from USU? Please explain the structure in more detail.
              No. The Transforming Communities Institute is a sub-brand of Utah State University.
              Please see the attached organization chart. For more detailed charts of USU’s
              organizational structure, please visit https://www.usu.edu/oda/accreditation/organization-
              charts
       Please elaborate on why the proposed Standing Order was insufficient for the needs of the
       proposed model/entity.

              As outlined in the cover letter submitted with USU TCI’s application, proceeding under a
              standing order is insufficient to meet the mission of the CJA program. While a standing
              order might facilitate USU TCI’s efforts as a training resource for CJAs, it is
              insufficient—and likely counterproductive—to achieving statewide scalability and
              sustainability of the CJA program.

              For example, Standing Order 16, regarding Innovation 4 Justice’s (i4J) Housing Stability
              Legal Advocate (HSLA) Pilot Program, states, “The Court is not itself certifying any
              individual HSLA. It is, rather, ensuring that the HSLA providers i4J certifies and their
              [community-based organization (CBO)] employers are given safe harbor from
              enforcement based on the unauthorized practice of law.” This safe harbor is contingent on
              compliance with the Standing Order, which further requires that, “HSLAs certified by i4J
              must work within CBOs authorized by the Court within the legal regulatory sandbox and
              overseen by the Office of Legal Services Innovation. CBOs within the Housing Stability
              Initiative must independently apply for authorization within the legal regulatory
              sandbox.” Moreover, HSLA certifications under the standing order are voided if the
              practitioner leaves employment with an authorized CBO.

              Given the limitations imposed by the standing order model, USU TCI, NLSU, and USU’s
              General Counsel concluded that a standing order presents too many restrictions and
              barriers to the growth and sustainability of the CJA program. Turnover among CBOs will
              lead to the voiding of multiple CJA certifications, significantly limiting the program’s
              ability to scale and address the growing justice gap. Additionally, the costs and
              administrative burdens for CBOs to participate in the Sandbox, including the intensive
              application and reporting requirements, are likely to dissuade individual CBOs from
              using their limited resources to navigate the Sandbox process.

              In contrast, USU TCI’s proposed service model within the Sandbox provides a scalable
              and sustainable solution to deliver a high-quality statewide training, supervision, and data
              collection initiative for Human Alternative Legal Providers. CBOs would only need to
              support, or in some cases, simply allow employees to pursue CJA certification.
              Furthermore, the portability of CJA certifications under the proposed model ensures that
       practitioners retain their certifications even if they transition to a different CBO. This
       flexibility makes the proposed USU TCI model far more conducive to statewide
       scalability and sustainability than what a Standing Order can offer.

Please provide explicit details on the role/responsibilities of CJAs. Will they merely advise
clients, or also participate by, for example, sending letters?

       Consistent with the principle of self-determination that social workers apply in serving
       clients, social workers trained as CJAs will help self-represented parties do a better job of
       representing themselves in debt collection matters.
       Social workers trained as CJAs will provide limited-scope legal advice with the goal of
       increasing clients’ comfort and effectiveness in understanding their rights and options,
       engaging with creditors and their counsel, and engaging in the litigation process as
       follows:

       •   Explaining the life cycle of a debt collection case from debt creation to demand letter
           to lawsuit to judgment and collections;
       •   Identifying potential options for addressing a debt collection dispute, including the
           potential consequences of paying the debt versus disputing the debt versus doing
           nothing;
       •   Advising self-represented parties about how to effectively negotiate on their own
           behalf with creditors and creditors’ counsel;
       •   Advising self-represented parties about available court forms, which court forms
           serve which purpose, and what information to provide with which form; and
       •   Advising self-represented parties on how to prepare for and represent themselves in
           court hearings.

       Social workers trained as CJAs will not act as the agent of their clients in legal matters.
       Social workers trained as CJAs will not send letters on behalf of self-represented parties;
       will not speak to creditors or creditors’ counsel on behalf of self-represented parties; and
       while they may attend court hearings with self-represented parties, they will not address
       the court.


Who will deliver the training? Partners (lawyers)? Or USU/TCI? Who is answering the
hotline and providing other guidance?
       As detailed in the Risk Assessment section of USU TCI’s application, training and
       instruction will be delivered by USU TCI in collaboration with the licensed attorneys at
       NLSU. Additionally, volunteer attorneys will respond to inquiries submitted through the
      hotline or email bank to assist CJAs if the NLSU supervisor is unavailable or if they have
      additional needs beyond regular supervision.

At what level does complaint monitoring happen?

      Clients of CJAs will have the option of submitting complaints by phone, email, or via an
      online form accessed by QR code. The phone number, email address, and QR code will
      be provided as part of an intake packet provided to each client receiving limited-scope
      legal advice from a CJA. Complaints will be logged and preserved by USU TCI as part
      of its data gathering commitment.


Will there be confidentiality agreements between CJAs and USU/TCI?

      Yes. Confidentiality agreements will be implemented between CJAs and USU TCI and
      NLSU to ensure client confidentiality.


Are CJAs paid?

      USU TCI is focusing its recruitment efforts on current professionals employed by
      community-based organizations. Following certification, CJAs will continue to be
      compensated by their respective employers. The purpose of the CJA certification is to
      equip social service professionals with enhanced skills to better serve their existing
      clients, rather than to broaden their client base or increase their compensation. USU TCI
      and NLSU do not have control over any aspect of a CJA’s compensation or contract with
      their employer. USU TCI cannot require any employer of prospective CJA +to adjust an
      employee’s compensation following CJA certification. During the pilot year, CJAs will
      receive compensation from USU as part of grant funding to support them providing
      feedback on their experiences and the CJA curriculum.



Please confirm the current role/status of NLSU in the proposed model.

      NLSU’s role and status in the proposed model is unchanged from the original submission.
      NLSU will provide weekly supervision for two months before being awarded their
      certificate. They will assist with managing the volunteer lawyer “hotline” or “email” bank
      approach on an as-needed basis to troubleshoot complex cases to which CJAs have
      access. NLSU will also help collect data from services as needed for reporting and
      evaluation.
Please confirm whether there is a Utah-licensed lawyer involved. Under the Innovation
Manual, entities with minimal or no ongoing involvement from Utah-licensed attorneys are
classified as High Innovation. High Innovation entities are placed in provisional
authorization pending the development of a pre-launch assessment. (Please see the below
excerpts from the Innovation Office Manual).

      The proposed services involve multiple Utah-licensed attorneys, primarily
      (Bar #       ) and               (Bar         ) of Nonprofit Legal Services of Utah.
              and        will provide direct supervision of the CJAs’ legal work.        and
             are also providing counsel and advisement to TCI program facilitators involved in
      the development and implementation of this initiative.

      In addition to NLSU and TCI,                      (Bar #       ) of
               is a co-leader in the creation and development of instructional content and
      materials. USU TCI has also established a Community Partner Panel (CPP) consisting of
      various community stakeholders to advise and inform the development and
      implementation of the CJA program. In addition to                   and              the
      CPP consists of the following licensed attorneys:
