                 In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                                    ----oo0oo----

                  In re: Application of Legal Assistance J.
                                            ---


  ORDER FOR PROVISIONAL AUTHORIZATION WITHIN THE UTAH LEGAL SANDBOX

Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted authority to
regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order 15, the Utah Supreme
Court orders that Legal Assistance J. is provisionally authorized within the Utah legal
regulatory sandbox (“Sandbox”) and subject to the restrictions outlined below.

The Court has reviewed the amended recommendation of the Office of Legal Services
Innovation (“Innovation Office”) dated July 6, 2023 for Legal Assistance J. to be
provisionally authorized within the Sandbox.

Legal Assistance J., located in Orem, Utah, is owned by Jessica Martinez Zarate and Moises
Morales Martinez. Legal Assistance J. will be an entity providing limited legal assistance
primarily to the Hispanic community through a nonlawyer (Alternative Legal Provider
(“ALP”)). Legal Assistance J. seeks authorization to serve the Hispanic community of Utah
County with family law and domestic violence matters.

Legal Assistance J. staff will be attending Utah Legal Service’s Domestic Lawyers Academy
(“DLA”) to receive training and hands-on experience with divorce law. Through the DLA,
Legal Assistance J. will have access to lawyer mentors, but those mentors will not be in an
ongoing quality oversight role.

The Legal Services Innovation (“LSI Committee”) has assessed Legal Assistance J. ’s
proposed entity structure, service methods, and legal areas. It has determined that Legal
Assistance J. is a High Innovation entity and that the risk of harm to its targeted
consumers, relative to the risk of harm they currently face, is acceptable for provisional
authorization under the outlined conditions. The Committee further recommends
authorizing Legal Assistance J. to develop limited legal advice and assistance as outlined
in the recommendation for standard divorces and certain domestic violence issues at this
time. Legal Assistance J’s proposal meets the innovation requirement in that it seeks to
provide Utah’s Hispanic and Latino communities with accessible and affordable legal
services in their native language.
In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate the practice of
law in Utah, and in keeping with the tenets of Standing Order 15, the Court now orders
as follows:

1. Legal Assistance J. is provisionally authorized as a High Innovation entity to develop
   legal services within the Sandbox. Provisional authorization is required for all
   entities with service models qualifying as High Innovation. High Innovation entities
   must satisfactorily complete the relevant pre-launch service assessments and
   background checks as required by the Innovation Office before they will be
   authorized to offer any legal services to the public.

2. Legal Assistance J. is provisionally authorized to develop legal services through the
   following service methods:

      a. Human Alternative Legal Provider
          i. Legal advice
         ii. Form completion/routine document assistance
        iii. Pleadings/motion drafting
        iv.  Negotiation assistance (including court-ordered mediation assistance)
      b. With no involvement or oversight from a Utah-licensed lawyer.

No in court representation is authorized at this time.


3. Legal Assistance J. is provisionally authorized to develop legal services across the
   following legal areas:
     a. Key legal areas:
         i. Family and Marriage – limited to divorces which would qualify for Track 1
            (Standard Track) under Rule 100A of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
            This means that Legal Assistance J. can only serve consumers in simple
            divorce matters which do not require expert witnesses or complex
            discovery and which do not include significant custody disputes, including
            custody disputes involving allegations of child abuse or domestic violence.
        ii. Domestic and Intimate Partner Violence - legal advice related to protective
            orders, restraining orders, or stalking injunctions only (but no divorce,
            custody or other subsequent domestic proceedings).

4. Legal Assistance J. shall conform to the High Innovation reporting requirements
   imposed by the Innovation Office.

5. Legal Assistance J. shall prominently display the following disclosure requirements:

      a. Innovation Office Badge
      b. Alternative Legal Provider disclosure
         6. This provisional authorization is granted for up to 24 months.

         7. All managers and owners are hereby ordered to: 2
             a. Act in good faith to further a client’s best interests.
             b. Not allow economic or other conflicts of interest to adversely affect the legal services
                 rendered to a client.
             c. Ensure that legal services are delivered with reasonable diligence and promptness.
             d. Not reveal confidential information pertaining to the representation of a client
                 without the client’s consent or as allowed or required by law.
             e. Not engage in or allow any activity that misleads or attempts to mislead a client, a
                 court, or others.
             f. Not take any action or engage in activity that interferes with the professional
                 independence of lawyers or others authorized to provide legal services.
             g. Develop systems and processes within the entity applicant to ensure that each of the
                 above duties are met and satisfied.
             h. Complete a one-hour ethics training approved by the LSI Committee that explains
                 these obligations.

        All managers and owners will be required to sign an attestation to the foregoing before
        launching any services for the public.

         8. Provisional authorization is subject to Legal Assistance J. ’s compliance with the
            conditions and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office Manual, including
            compliance with all vetting requirements and payment of all applicable fees unless
            wavied by the Office and verification by the Innovation Office that the entity’s
            services are not causing material harm to consumers.

         9. This provisional authorization does not relieve Legal Assistance J., its employees, or
            any associated lawyer from compliance with applicable state and federal laws and
            any rules or regulations of another state, government agency, or other governing



2 Managers and owners are specific terms defined in the Innovation Office Manual as follows:

 Managers
 All persons and entities who wholly or partially direct the management or policies of the entity, and/or the
 direct provision of legal services to consumers, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or
 otherwise, including a mentor who manages the person providing the legal services. Also called “controlling
 persons.”

 Owners
 All persons and entities who wholly or partially (10% or more) finance the business (i.e. the services) of the
 entity. Also called “financing persons.”

 Please note that the definition of owner/financing person does not include philanthropic funders or other
 investors who do not take an ownership interest in the entity.
    body. Legal Assistance J. is responsible for assuring that it complies with the laws,
    rules, and regulations of any other affected jurisdiction.

If Legal Assistance J. wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must submit any
such change to the Innovation Office for further assessment. The Innovation Office will
assess the proposed change and may permit the change if it deems the change does not
materially increase the risks to consumers. If the Innovation Office finds a material
increase in risk, then it will present the issue to the Court for further consideration.




DATED this 2nd
           ___ day of August
                     ___________, 2023.


                                                               _______________________________
                                                                  Matthew B. Durrant
                                                                  Chief Justice
