                 In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                                    ----oo0oo----

                    In re: Application of Mercedes-Argo
                                            ---


  ORDER FOR PROVISIONAL AUTHORIZATION WITHIN THE UTAH LEGAL SANDBOX

Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted authority to
regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order 15, the Utah Supreme
Court orders that Mercedes-Argo & Associates, LLC (“Mercedes-Argo”) is provisionally
authorized within the Utah legal regulatory sandbox (“Sandbox”) and subject to the
restrictions outlined below.

The Court has reviewed the amended recommendation of the Office of Legal Services
Innovation (“Innovation Office”) dated June 6, 2023 for Mercedes-Argo to be
provisionally authorized within the Sandbox.

Mercedes-Argo, located in West Valley, is owned by Mercedes Arredondo. All legal
services offered by this entity will be provided by an nonlaweyr (Alternative Legal
Provider (“ALP”)). Mercedes-Argo seeks authorization to serve the Hispanic community
of West Valley City with family law matters.

Mercedes-Argo staff will be attending Utah Legal Service’s Domestic Lawyers Academy
(“DLA”) to receive specific training and hands-on experience with divorce law. Through
the DLA, Mercedes-Argo staff will have access to lawyer mentors, but those mentors will
not be in an ongoing quality oversight role.

The Legal Services Innovation (“LSI”) Committee has assessed Mercedes-Argo’s proposed
entity structure, service methods, and legal areas. It has determined that Mercedes-Argo is a
High Innovation entity and that the risk of harm to its targeted consumers, relative to the
risk of harm they currently face, is acceptable for provisional authorization under certain
conditions. Mercedes-Argo’s proposal meets the innovation requirement in that it seeks to
provide Utah’s Hispanic and Latino communities with accessible and affordable legal
services in their native language.

The LSI Committee recommends authorizing Mercedes-Argo to develop limited legal advice
and assistance for Track 1 divorces, as outlined in the recommendation..
In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate the practice of
law in Utah, and in keeping with the tenets of Standing Order 15, the Court now orders
as follows:

1. Mercedes-Argo is provisionally authorized as a High Innovation entity to develop
   legal services within the Sandbox. Provisional authorization is required for all
   entities with service models qualifying as High Innovation. High Innovation entities
   must satisfactorily complete the relevant pre-launch service assessments and
   background checks as required by the Innovation Office before they will be
   authorized to offer any legal services to the public.

2. Mercedes-Argo is provisionally authorized to develop legal services through the
   following service methods:

      a. Human Alternative Legal Provider
          i. Legal advice
         ii. Form completion/ routine document assistance
        iii. Pleadings/motion drafting
        iv.  Negotiation assistance (including court ordered mediation assistance)
   a. With no involvement or oversight from a Utah-licensed lawyer.


No in court representation is authorized at this time.


3. Mercedes-Argo is provisionally authorized to develop legal services across the
   following legal areas:
     a. Family and Marriage – limited to divorces which would qualify for Track 1
        (Standard Track) under Rule 100A of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
        This means that Mercedes-Argo can only serve consumers in simple divorce
        matters which do not require expert witnesses or complex discovery and which
        do not include significant custody disputes, including custody disputes
        involving allegations of child abuse or domestic violence.

4. Mercedes-Argo shall conform to the High Innovation reporting requirements
   imposed by the Innovation Office.

5. Mercedes-Argo shall prominently display the following disclosure requirements:

      a. Innovation Office Badge
      b. Alternative Legal Provider disclosure

6. This provisional authorization is granted for up to 24 months.
         7. All managers and owners are hereby ordered to:2
             a. Act in good faith to further a client’s best interests.
             b. Not allow economic or other conflicts of interest to adversely affect the legal services
                 rendered to a client.
             c. Ensure that legal services are delivered with reasonable diligence and promptness.
             d. Not reveal confidential information pertaining to the representation of a client
                 without the client’s consent or as allowed or required by law.
             e. Not engage in or allow any activity that misleads or attempts to mislead a client, a
                 court, or others.
             f. Not take any action or engage in activity that interferes with the professional
                 independence of lawyers or others authorized to provide legal services.
             g. Develop systems and processes within the entity applicant to ensure that each of the
                 above duties are met and satisfied.
             h. Complete a one-hour ethics training approved by the LSI Committee that explains
                 these obligations.

        All managers and owners will be required to sign an attestation to the foregoing before
        launching any services for the public.

         8. Provisional authorization is subject to Mercedes-Argo’s compliance with the
            conditions and requirements set forth in the Innovation Office Manual, including
            compliance with all vetting requirements and payment of all applicable fees unless
            waived by the Office and verification by the Innovation Office that the entity’s
            services are not causing material harm to consumers.

         9. This provisional authorization does not relieve Mercedes-Argo, its employees, or any
            associated lawyer from compliance with applicable state and federal laws and any
            rules or regulations of another state or other governing body. Mercedes-Argo is
            responsible for assuring that it complies with the laws, rules, and regulations of any
            other affected jurisdiction.


2 Managers and owners are specific terms defined in the Innovation Office Manual as follows:

 Managers
 All persons and entities who wholly or partially direct the management or policies of the entity, and/or the
 direct provision of legal services to consumers, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or
 otherwise, including a mentor who manages the person providing the legal services. Also called “controlling
 persons.”

 Owners
 All persons and entities who wholly or partially ( 10% or more) finance the business (i.e. the services) of the
 entity. Also called “financing persons.”

 Please note that the definition of owner/financing person does not include philanthropic funders or other
 investors who do not take an ownership interest in the entity.
If Mercedes-Argo wishes to alter these conditions or requirements, it must submit any
such change to the Innovation Office for further assessment. The Innovation Office will
assess the proposed change and may permit the change if it deems the change does not
materially increase the risks to consumers. If the Innovation Office finds a material
increase in risk, then it will present the issue to the Court for further consideration.



DATED this 2
           ___
            nd day of August
                     ___________, 2023.


                                                             _______________________________
                                                                Matthew B. Durrant
                                                                Chief Justice
