                        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH

                                         ---OO0OO---


                            Standing Order No. 16 (Amended)

            (Authorizing a Housing Stability Legal Advocate Pilot Program)

                         Effective March 9, 2023 (Amended May 15, 2025)


       Unstable housing is a significant component of the access to justice gap nationally
and in Utah. People facing eviction and foreclosure often have significant barriers to
getting legal help and face major negative consequences from these life events. The
community repercussions of housing instability are also significant and
lasting. Allowing additional trained providers to help vulnerable populations facing
housing instability could be an impactful means to address the justice gap and its long-
term impacts.

        In November 2022, the Office of Legal Services Innovation (“Innovation Office”)
received an application for admission to the legal regulatory sandbox from Innovation
4 Justice (“i4J”), an access-to-justice lab associated with both the University of Arizona
and the University of Utah. i4J sought approval in the sandbox not as an organization
providing legal services, but rather for a pilot of a certification program for educating,
training, and certifying nonlawyers working within other community-based
organizations (“CBOs”) as Housing Stability Legal Advocates (“HSLAs”). Under i4J’s
Housing Stability Initiative, i4J will offer a free HSLA curriculum, and certify HSLAs
who complete the curriculum with satisfactory scores. Upon completion of the i4J
educational curriculum and training and assessment protocol, HSLAs will provide free,
limited-scope legal advice about legal issues related to housing. i4J would continue to
provide a supporting role for the participating CBOs, including availability for legal
mentoring (answering questions that come up from the HSLAs) and assisting the CBOs
with their regulatory compliance requirements.

       The Legal Services Innovation Committee, which oversees the Innovation Office
and makes recommendations to the Court on individual applications, determined that
the posture of i4J’s application presented significant challenges within the sandbox
model. However, the Committee, recognizing the importance of the need for legal help
within this substantive area and the high potential access impacts of i4J’s pilot, asked the
Court to consider authorization of the pilot by the Court directly with the requirement
that individual CBOs seeking to offer legal services through i4J-certified HSLAs be
authorized within the legal sandbox. This approach ensures that the Court can develop
Standing Order No. 16                                                              1|Pa ge
data around the quality of the legal services provided by i4J’s pilot, thereby providing
the Court with an empirical basis on which to make future policy decisions on HSLA
certification.

       By issuing this Standing Order, the Court is not itself certifying any individual
HSLA. It is, rather, ensuring that the HSLA providers i4J certifies and their CBO
employers are given safe harbor from enforcement based on the unauthorized practice
of law and that i4J is not targeted for aiding, abetting, or providing unauthorized practice
of law itself. This safe harbor is contingent upon compliance with this Standing Order,
the regulatory requirements of the Office of Legal Services Innovation, and all other
applicable state and federal statutes and regulations.


       Therefore, in accordance with its plenary and exclusive authority and
responsibility under article VIII, section 4 of the Utah Constitution to govern the practice
of law, the Utah Supreme Court orders that:

        1. The Housing Stability Legal Advocate Initiative of Innovation 4 Justice (“i4J”),
           an access-to-justice lab associated with both the University of Arizona and the
           University of Utah, is hereby established as a pilot initiative.

        2. i4J is authorized to partner with Utah community-based organizations
           (“CBOs”) to train and certify select CBO staff as Housing Stability Legal
           Advocates (“HSLAs”) to provide free limited legal advice related to housing
           issues across the following four activities:

                a. Issue spotting for housing stability issues at CBO client intake:
                       i. identifying housing legal issues and alerting clients to them;
                      ii. providing legal advice related to identified housing legal issues.

                b. Providing legal advice and assistance with identified housing issues:
                       i. assisting tenants with responding to and completing legal
                          forms; advising clients on housing-related legal issues,
                          including the civil legal process and timelines;
                      ii. screening for legal defenses;
                     iii. assisting in negotiations to reach solutions;
                     iv. providing legal advice and assistance in preparation for court
                      v. assisting clients in court as outlined in rule 14-810 of the Utah
                          Supreme Court Rules of Professional Practice.

                c. Providing legal advice and assistance with post-judgment procedures:
                      i. identifying whether there is cause for a post-judgment
                         challenge,


Standing Order No. 16                                                              2|Pa ge
                         ii. advising tenants about post-judgment consequences such as
                             garnishments or liens,
                        iii. assisting tenants with removing evictions from credit or housing
                             reports.

                d. Providing legal advice and assistance related to other state and federal
                   assistance programs:
                       i. identifying fair housing issues that may enable people to find
                          replacement housing post-eviction.

        3. HSLAs’ authorization by this order is subject to any otherwise existing federal
           or state statutes, rules, or regulations.

        4. i4J will only certify HSLAs who meet the educational and/or experiential,
           training, and assessment requirements set forth in its proposal (see Appendix
           A). If i4J wishes to make any material changes to the Housing Stability
           Initiative, whether to the educational, experiential, training, and assessment
           requirements, to the authorized legal activities or to substantive legal areas,
           i4J must notify the Court.

        5. i4J will keep a current list of all certified HSLAs and contact information and
           will provide it to the Court if requested.

        6. An individual who has been suspended from practicing law or disbarred by
           the highest court in any state or who has been denied admission to the practice
           of law in Utah whether as a lawyer or as a Licensed Paralegal Practitioner is
           not eligible to participate in this pilot program.

        7. HSLAs certified by i4J must work within CBOs authorized by the Court within
           the legal regulatory sandbox and overseen by the Office of Legal Services
           Innovation. CBOs within the Housing Stability Initiative must independently
           apply for authorization within the legal regulatory sandbox.

        8. i4J will be required to alert the Office as soon as possible should it learn of any
           significant consumer harm or other material compliance issues related to any
           HSLA or CBO within the Housing Stability Initiative.

        9. Unless otherwise ordered by the Court, the safe harbor offered by this Order
           to HSLAs expires upon the occurrence of any of the following:

                a. Termination of the Housing Stability Initiative authorized by this
                   Order, whether by the Court or by i4J;

                b. The HSLA leaving employment from an authorized CBO;

Standing Order No. 16                                                                3|Pa ge
                c. Termination of the employer CBO from the sandbox.



DATED this 15th day of May, 2025




                                                     __________________________
                                                     Matthew B. Durrant
                                                     Chief Justice
                                                     Utah Supreme Court




Standing Order No. 16                                                     4|Pa ge
