                 In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah
                                  ----oo0oo----
                 In re: LegalAtoms Corporation/LegalAtoms, Inc.
                                 ---
           ORDER TERMINATING AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW
                AND GRANTING PARTIAL WAIVER OF RULE 5.4

       Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted
       authority to regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order
       15, the Utah Supreme Court orders that LegalAtoms Corporation/LegalAtoms,
       Inc.’s (“LegalAtoms”) authorization is terminated, but that Utah-licensed lawyers
       may continue to practice law with LegalAtoms under the terms set forth below.

       “The Utah Constitution imposes on this court the duty, and grants it the
       concomitant authority, to govern the practice of law within the state of
       Utah.” In re Anthony, 2010 UT 3, ¶ 11, 225 P.3d 198. Pursuant to that
       authority, the Court established a pilot legal regulatory sandbox
       (“Sandbox”) to test whether changing the way it regulates the practice of
       law can increase access to legal services without increasing consumer harm.

       On July 22, 2021 1, the Court authorized LegalAtoms to operate in the
       Sandbox as a low-innovation alternative business structure (“ABS”), in
       which services are provided by lawyers partnering with, employed by, or
       sharing profits with nonlawyers.

       The Sandbox is a seven-year pilot project set to expire on August 14, 2027,
       unless otherwise provided. After assessing the data from four years of
       Sandbox operations, the Court exercised its discretion to narrow the scope
       of the Sandbox to focus on moderate- and high-innovation service models
       designed to reach Utah consumers currently underserved by the legal
       market (“the Utah innovation requirement”). As a result, the Court ended
       the ABS-only portion of the Sandbox on December 31, 2024.

       The Court directed the Legal Services Innovation Committee to identify
       low-innovation ABS entities whose Sandbox authorizations should be
       terminated. The Court also asked the Committee to recommend whether
       Utah-licensed lawyers should be allowed to work for or partner with those


1 An amended order was issued on August 10, 2022.
terminated entities, without being subject to discipline under rule 5.4 of this
Court’s Rules of Professional Conduct.

Pursuant to that charge, the Committee has recommended that
LegalAtoms’s Sandbox authorization be terminated because it is a low-
innovation ABS entity that does not meet the Utah innovation requirement.
The Committee also recommends that Utah-licensed lawyers working for
or partnering with LegalAtoms receive a partial waiver of rule 5.4.

In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate the
practice of law in Utah, and in keeping with the tenets of Standing Order
15, the Court now orders as follows:

Any and all orders authorizing LegalAtoms to provide services within the
Sandbox are hereby terminated.

Utah-licensed lawyers may practice law with LegalAtoms even though a
financial interest is held or managerial authority is exercised by one or more
persons who are non-lawyers. See SUP. CT. R. PRO. PRAC. 5.4(d). The court
waives the requirement in rule 5.4(d) that LegalAtoms be authorized as
required by Standing Order 15.

Utah lawyers employed by or partnering with LegalAtoms remain subject
to all other Rules of Professional Responsibility, including but not limited
to the following provisions of rule 5.4:

   •   Ensuring that there is no interference with the lawyer's professional
       independence of judgment, duty of loyalty to a client, and protection
       of client confidences, id. 5.4(a);

   •   Providing written notice to a prospective client, before accepting a
       representation, that one or more nonlawyers holds a financial
       interest in the organization in which the lawyer practices or that one
       or more nonlawyers exercises managerial authority over the lawyer,
       id. 5.4(d)(1), and

   •   Setting forth in writing to a client the financial and managerial
       structure of the organization in which the lawyer practices, id.
       5.4(d)(2).
This order applies only to Utah lawyers practicing within the scope of their
Utah bar license. It has no effect on any other aspect of LegalAtoms’s
operations. This order is not transferable to any other entity.

This waiver will automatically terminate at the conclusion of the Sandbox
pilot project on August 14, 2027, unless the Court, in its sole discretion,
determines that there is good cause to revoke the waiver before that
date. Good cause may include, but is not limited to, any actions that alter
LegalAtoms’s non-lawyer ownership/management structure or expand
LegalAtoms’s scope of operations beyond those represented in its Sandbox
application(s) and authorized by the Court.

Prior to the termination date, LegalAtoms or Utah lawyers associated with
the entity may petition the Court to extend the waiver by submitting a
written request to the Office of Legal Services Innovation setting forth good
cause for an extension.


DATED this 7th
           ___ day of March, 2025.




                                  ___________________________________
                                  Matthew B. Durrant
                                  Chief Justice
