                  In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah
                                         ----oo0oo----
                                  In re: Michelle Turpin PC
                                  ---
            ORDER TERMINATING AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE LAW
                 AND GRANTING PARTIAL WAIVER OF RULE 5.4

       Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted
       authority to regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing Order
       15, the Utah Supreme Court orders that Michelle Turpin PC’s authorization is
       terminated, but that Utah-licensed lawyers may continue to practice law with
       Michelle Turpin PC under the terms set forth below.

       “The Utah Constitution imposes on this court the duty, and grants it the
       concomitant authority, to govern the practice of law within the state of
       Utah.” In re Anthony, 2010 UT 3, ¶ 11, 225 P.3d 198. Pursuant to that
       authority, the Court established a pilot legal regulatory sandbox
       (“Sandbox”) to test whether changing the way it regulates the practice of
       law can increase access to legal services without increasing consumer harm.

       On February 2, 2023, the Court authorized Michelle Turpin PC to operate
       in the Sandbox as a Moderate Innovation entity.1 On July 30, 2025, Michelle
       Turpin PC submitted a request to depart the Sandbox with a partial rule 5.4
       waiver, stating that it operated as a Low Innovation entity.

       The Sandbox is a seven-year pilot project set to expire on August 14, 2027,
       unless otherwise provided. After assessing the data from four years of
       Sandbox operations, the Court exercised its discretion to narrow the scope
       of the Sandbox to focus on Moderate and High Innovation service models
       designed to reach Utah consumers currently underserved by the legal
       market (“the Utah innovation requirement”). As a result, the Court ended
       the ABS-only portion of the Sandbox on December 31, 2024.

       The Court directed the Legal Services Innovation Committee to identify
       Low Innovation ABS entities whose Sandbox authorizations should be
       terminated. The Court also asked the Committee to recommend whether
       Utah-licensed lawyers should be allowed to work for or partner with those




1 In the Sandbox, a Low Innovation model is one where legal services are provided by attorneys. For
Moderate Innovation and High Innovation models, legal services are solely or partially provided by
alternative legal providers (software and/or nonlawyers).
terminated entities, without being subject to discipline under rule 5.4 of this
Court’s Rules of Professional Conduct.

Although Michelle Turpin PC was granted a Moderate Innovation
authorization, the Committee assessed its model and request, deciding to
recommend termination with a partial 5.4 waiver for Utah-licensed lawyers
working for or partnering with the entity.

In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate the
practice of law in Utah, and in keeping with the tenets of Standing Order
15, the Court now orders as follows:

Any and all orders authorizing Michelle Turpin PC to provide services
within the Sandbox are hereby terminated.

Utah-licensed lawyers may practice law with Michelle Turpin PC even
though a financial interest is held or managerial authority is exercised by
one or more persons who are non-lawyers. See SUP. CT. R. PRO. PRAC. 5.4(d).
The Court waives the requirement in rule 5.4(d) that Michelle Turpin PC be
authorized as required by Standing Order 15.

Utah lawyers employed by or partnering with Michelle Turpin PC remain
subject to all other Rules of Professional Responsibility, including but not
limited to the following provisions of rule 5.4:

   •   Ensuring that there is no interference with the lawyer's professional
       independence of judgment, duty of loyalty to a client, and
       protection of client confidences, id. 5.4(a);

   •   Providing written notice to a prospective client, before accepting a
       representation, that one or more nonlawyers holds a financial
       interest in the organization in which the lawyer practices or that
       one or more nonlawyers exercises managerial authority over the
       lawyer, id. 5.4(d)(1), and

   •   Setting forth in writing to a client the financial and managerial
       structure of the organization in which the lawyer practices, id.
       5.4(d)(2).

This order applies only to Utah lawyers practicing within the scope of their
Utah bar license. It has no effect on any other aspect of Michelle Turpin PC’s
operations. This order is not transferable to any other entity.
This waiver will automatically terminate at the conclusion of the Sandbox
pilot project on August 14, 2027, unless the Court, in its sole discretion,
determines that there is good cause to revoke the waiver before that
date. Good cause may include, but is not limited to, any actions that alter
Michelle Turpin PC’s non-lawyer ownership/management structure or
expand Michelle Turpin PC’s scope of operations beyond those represented
in its Sandbox application(s) and authorized by the Court. Prior to the
termination date, Michelle Turpin PC or Utah lawyers associated with the
entity may petition the Court to extend the waiver by submitting a written
request to the Office of Legal Services Innovation setting forth good cause
for an extension.



DATED this 20th day of November 2025.


                                 _______________________________
                                 Matthew B. Durrant
                                 Chief Justice
