             In the Supreme Court of the State of Utah

                                ----oo0oo----

               In re: Termination of D4U Immigration LLC

                                      ---


Based upon the Utah Supreme Court’s plenary and constitutionally granted
authority to regulate the practice of law in Utah, and the tenets of Standing
Order 15, the Utah Supreme Court orders that D4U Immigration’s authorization is
terminated.

The Court has reviewed the recommendation of the Office of Legal Services
Innovation assessing D4U Immigration’s performance, compliance, and
complaint record while in the Sandbox.

D4U Immigration applied for Sandbox participation on June 23, 2022. Based on
what was proposed in the application, the Office recommended authorization
which was granted by the Court on August 10, 2022. On November 1, 2022, the
Florida Bar requested information regarding D4U’s application. D4U launched
services on November 7, 2022; to date D4U has reported 234 instances of
immigration services provided and currently open. On November 15, 2022 the
Florida Bar sent a copy of a cease and desist letter D4U’
had signed June 9, 2021 agreeing to cease operating a law firm in violation of
Florida's UPL rule. The Office immediately placed D4U in Watch status and began
an investigation. On November 16, 2022 two complaints were filed with the
Office; one from                                                            and
one from
         On December 7, 2022 the Office requested information from
attorney who responded on December 12, 2022. After completion of the
investigation, the LSI Committee suspended D4U on February 23, 2023. The Office
recommends termination.

The Office of Legal Services Innovation’s Enforcement Policy provides that before
an entity may be recommended for suspension, there must be, among other
things, confirmed incomplete or inaccurate entity disclosures at application.
Before an entity may be recommended for termination, there must be chronic or
multiple minor or moderate issues or severe acute issues.
D4U’s application failed to disclose the UPL cases that were pending as of the time
of its submission and failed to disclose the Cease and Desist Affidavit which was
signed in June of 2021. These UPL proceedings qualify as a “state enforcement
action” and a “criminal investigation” that should have been disclosed in response
to Question 4.9. D4U provided incomplete or inaccurate entity disclosures at
application. Had that information been disclosed, the Committee would not have
recommended authorization of D4U to the Court. These misrepresentations are a
severe acute issue, warranting termination.

In light of the Court’s responsibility to the public to effectively regulate the
practice of law in Utah and in keeping with the tenets of Standing Order 15, the
Court now orders as follows:

D4U Immigration’s Authorization granted August 10, 2022, is hereby terminated.

D4U Immigration is ordered to:

   1. Immediately cease providing legal services to consumers
   2. Remove the Authorization badge from D4U’s website and other materials
   3. Notify Lawyers involved with D4U of terminated authorization and that:
          a. Utah licensed lawyers are no longer authorized to work with D4U
              under Utah Rule of Professional Conduct 5.4 and must disengage
              their legal practice business from D4U;
          b. All lawyers remain subject to the Rules of Professional Conduct at
              all times and must conform to those rules in disengaging their
              business affairs from D4U;
          c. All lawyers remain subject to the Rules of Professional Conduct as
              to on-going client representation, withdrawing from
              representation, returning client property including funds not
              earned, and all other applicable rules.
          d. A lawyer’s failure to adhere to their professional responsibility
              requirements could result in a referral to the appropriate lawyer
              disciplinary authority.
   4. Within 10 days of the date of this order, D4U shall submit an affidavit to
      the Office certifying they have complied with these requirements.

Failure to comply with the requirements outlined in the following order will result
in additional sanctions.

If D4U Immigration wishes to appeal this decision, it must submit a request for
reconsideration to the Office within 30 days from the date of this Order. If the
Office denies the reconsideration (by issuing a Denial of Reconsideration), the
entity may appeal to the Court. The entity has 30 days from the date of the denial
of reconsideration to submit an Appeal of Termination. On receipt of the Appeal,
the Office will present the applicant’s appeal, including the entire file, to the
Court. If the Court denies the appeal, D4U may apply to be reinstated after three
years subject to the requirements of any new applicant, reinstatement fees,
application assessment, and disciplinary review.

DATED this 23rd day of March, 2023.


                                           _______________________________
                                           Matthew B. Durrant
                                           Chief Justice
